

6.1

  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about proposals,  one of the technical writing genres.  We will focus on different types of proposals.  To begin with, what is a proposal?  Think of a time when you had a successful experience persuading  a person or a group to follow your suggestion.  If you wrote a narrative about this experience,  this narrative would be a proposal.  So a proposal is a persuasive document  that offers a solution to an identified problem or need.  The word proposal comes from the base word propose.  If you are thinking of the meaning  “to suggest” or “to make an offer,”  you are beginning to understand the purpose of a proposal.  Now that we know what a proposal is,  what are the different types of proposals?  Proposals can be categorized  in several ways relating to the audience:  solicited or unsolicited;  formal or informal;  internal or external;  or sales, research, grant, or planning.  Solicited or unsolicited proposals  Proposals may be either solicited or unsolicited.  Solicited proposals are those  that have been requested by the audience.  Unsolicited proposals are those that have not been requested.  Let’s look at the following two situations:  A manager at work sees a problem and asks  an individual or a team to investigate possible solutions  to the problem and present recommendations in a proposal.  A new travel agency in town sends out proposals  to local schools to offer spring trips.  Can you see the differences between them?  The proposal in the first situation is the solicited one,  as the readers asked the writers to prepare it.  Then the proposal in the second situation is unsolicited  because it has not been requested.  Formal or informal proposals  Proposals may also be formal or informal.  Formal proposals take on the same format as formal reports,  including front matter, the proposal text,  and end matter, if applicable.  Informal proposals can take the form of an email or memo  if distributed within an organization,  or a letter when sent outside of an organization.  Internal or External  Readers of some proposals will be internal  —that is, inside the writer’s organization.  Other readers will be external,  or outside the writer’s organization.  Sales, Research, Grant, or Planning Proposals  Based on function,  or what the writer wants the audience to agree to do,  proposals fall into one of four categories.  The sales proposal tries to sell a product or service.  The research proposal asks  for approval to begin a study or an investigation.  The grant proposal seeks money from a government agency,  foundation, or other funding source for a specified project.  The planning proposal attempts  to persuade an audience to take a particular action.  A single proposal may combine several  of the categories mentioned here.  As you read proposals,  you may discover that all four categories apply to one document.  Let’s pause for a few seconds to read the following proposal.  This proposal states the document’s purpose,  summarizes the background and problem,  outlines the client’s needs,  proposes a solution and sets limitations.  In general, it is a planning proposal  as it proposes to take action to install an elevator  to make the building fully accessible.  It is solicited as we can see from the background section  that this proposal has been requested by Chris and the team  to install an elevator  to make the building fully accessible.  And the proposal is an informal one,  for it is presented as a letter.  We can see the letter header, “Dear Chris and team”.  So we can see that a single proposal  may be categorized several ways.  In this section, we have talked about  what a proposal is and analyzed different types of proposals.  Have you got it? That’s all.  Thank you!



6.2

  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the outline of a proposal.  Proposals often follow an introduction/body/conclusion structure.  Depending on the proposal’s complexity,  each section contains some or all of the components listed below.  Let’s look at this detailed outline.  The Introduction may include components  such as Statement of Problem, Objective,  Background and Literature Review, Need, Benefits,  Qualifications of Personnel, Data Sources,  Limitations and Contingencies, and Scope.  In the Body, it may include Objectives and Methods,  Timetable, Materials and Equipment, Personnel,  Available Facilities, Needed Facilities,  Cost and Budget, Expected Results and Feasibility.  The Conclusion may  include Summary of Key Points and Request for Action.  These components can be rearranged,  combined, divided, and deleted as required.  Not every proposal will contain all components.  However, each major section  must persuasively address specific information needs.  Let’s look at each section in detail.  Introduction  From the beginning,  your goal is to explicitly sell your idea, that is,  to demonstrate the need for the project,  your qualifications for tackling the project,  and your clear understanding of what needs  to be done and how to proceed.  A wordy or vague introduction  will make readers quickly lose interest.  The following is the introduction for a planning proposal titled  “Proposal for Solving the Noise Problem  in the University Library.”  The author addresses her proposal  to the chief librarian and the administrative staff.  Because this proposal is unsolicited,  it must first highlight the seriousness of problem  through providing details that arouse concern and interest.  This introduction is longer  than it would be in a solicited proposal.  The first two sections state concise descriptions of the problem  and the objective to immediately alert the readers.  The problem is the “noise in the library”.  Even if the areas were designated for quiet study,  complains about the noise continue.  The proposal is intended to examine  “the noise problem from the viewpoint of students,  faculty, and library staff”  and then offer “a plan to make areas  of the library quiet enough for serious study and research”.  Sources comes early  because it is referred to in the next sections.  Details of the Problem helps readers understand the problem.  Severity shows how the campus feels about the problem  and how this concern is widespread and pervasive.  In Causes, specific readers are identified.  The statement of Needs evolved logically  and persuasively from earlier evidence.  Finally, Scope previews the plan.  Body  The body or plan section of your proposal  will receive the most audience attention.  The main goal of this section is to prove your plan will work.  Here you spell out your plan in enough detail  for the audience to evaluate its soundness.  Let’s look at the body part of the above proposal.  In this proposed plan,  Phases of the Plan tells how the plan will be implemented.  The three phases are improving publicity,  shutting down and modifying facilities,  and enforcing the quiet rules.  These phases have been described in detail.  Then the plan estimates Costs and Materials needed,  describes Personnel needed,  assesses the probability of success, namely Feasibility,  and offers a realistic and persuasive forecast of Benefits.  Conclusion  The conclusion reaffirms the need  for the project and induces the audience to act.  A proposal conclusion  should be assertive, confident, encouraging, and short.  Here is the conclusion of the above proposal.  In long, formal proposals, especially those beginning  with a comprehensive abstract, the conclusion can be omitted.  In this section, we have talked about the outline of proposals.  You can refer to the appendix for the complete version  of the sample proposal we have mentioned here.  That’s all.  Thank you!



6.3

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the elements of a persuasive proposal.  The reader of a proposal expects it  to be clear, informative, and realistic.  They will evaluate your proposal on the basis  of the following ten elements.  An informative title or subject line  How can you write an informative title or subject?  Let’s look at this example.  “Proposed office procedures for Vista Freight”  This title is vague with no indication  of what office procedures are being proposed.  A more specific title would be:  “A proposal for automating Vista Freight’s billing system”  It is clear that an automating billing system is being proposed here.  Background information  A background section can be brief or long,  but it can help to achieve a persuasive proposal.  The following example  just briefly lists two services that Vista provides.  Statement of the problem  The example below clearly describes the problem  and its effects, thus calling for a solution.  Here, the problem is that record keeping,  accounting and other paperwork are still done manually.  It has caused late billings, lost commissions,  and poor account maintenance.  Then updated office procedures are proposed.  Description of the solution  After stating the problem, you should propose a solution.  The proposal audience wants specific suggestions  for meeting their specific needs.  Their biggest question is:  “What will this plan do for me?”  In the following proposal  for automating office procedures at Vista company,  the author begins with a clear assessment of needs,  and then moves quickly into a proposed plan of action.  We can see a string of action words:  identify, show, reduce, eliminate, improve and automate.  A clear focus on benefits  Then you may list benefits related directly to your readers’ needs.  The following list shows the exact tasks Vista employees  will be able to accomplish once the proposed plan  is implemented.  And these tasks are actually  the benefits relating directly to the client’s needs.  Honest and supportable claims  Claims that are made in proposals typically  involve expenditures of large sums of money  as well as contractual obligations.  Persuasive proposals require solid ethical and legal claims.  False or exaggerated promises  not only damage reputations, but also invite lawsuits.  For example, if you are proposing  to install customized virus-protection software,  be clear about what this software cannot accomplish  under certain circumstances.  Here is how the Vista proposal qualifies its promises.  We can see the author uses “diminish”  and “help avoid” instead of “eliminate”  to qualify the available solutions  so that he will not promise more than what the plan can achieve.  Appropriate detail  Vagueness in a proposal is fatal.  To create a proposal that is persuasive, spell everything out.  In the following sample,  the specific products are clearly presented,  like “iMac desktop computers,  each with TB hard drives” and so on.  Readability and visuals  A persuasive proposal must first be a readable one.  A readable proposal is straightforward,  easy to follow, and understandable.  And your proposal should move people to action.  Keep your tone confident and encouraging,  not bossy and critical.  Supplements tailored for a diverse audience  A persuasive proposal often addresses a diverse audience.  Various reviewers are interested in different parts  of your proposal.  If the primary audience is expert or informed,  keep the proposal text itself technical.  For uninformed secondary reviewers,  provide an informative appendix explaining specialized information.  Proper citation of sources and contributors  Persuasive proposals rarely emerge from thin air.  Proper citation is not only an ethical requirement,  but also an indicator of your proposal’s feasibility  and persuasiveness.  In this section we have talked about  the ten elements of a persuasive proposal.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section.  Thank you!



6.4

  Hello, everyone!  In this section, we will talk about  how we should analyze a Request for Proposal (RFP).  An RFP outlines the proposal requirements.  Analyzing this is the first stage of the process  for creating a proposal.  Here is a sample RFP  from an instructor of Technical Writing course.  Let’s pause for a few seconds to read it.  The first thing to determine is what kind of proposal  is being requested in the RFP.  Since the writer of the RFP is asking for proposals,  your ideas are being “solicited.”  This means that you do not have to work  to persuade your reader to read the proposal.  After we know what kind of proposal is requested,  we need to see what the primary criteria listed in the RFP are.  The criteria are listed in the order of importance  in this request.  First, “Create an instructional manual  that does not currently exist.”  So we can’t merely revise an existing manual to improve it.  We need to document some kind of system or process  that is not currently documented.  The next part of the sentence explains further  how the instructor is defining “does not currently exist”:  “identify a process or procedure  that has not been documented for a particular audience.”  This qualifies the first criteria in that the topic  does not have to be completely brand new,  so you could use a process that has been documented  but create an original set of instructions  tailored to a new and specific audience.  The second set of criteria to evaluate the proposal  is presented in the first set of bullet points explaining  what your proposal needs to do.  From this set of criteria,  we can identify information  that must be contained in the proposal:  background information,  why your audience needs the manual that you propose,  and how you will research and illustrate the steps  that you include in the manual.  Next, the RFP describes the range of topics to choose from,  listing the kinds of things  that students have done in the past.  Embedded in this list of suggestions  is also information about suitable topics,  appropriate audiences,  and the proper length for the project.  This range of topics is intended to provide insight  and inspiration as you contemplate topics  for your own project.  The third set of criteria  are listed in the second list of bullet points.  In this particular content outline, the instructor  is requesting not only the problem statement  but also a section that explains your expected purpose  in producing the type of manual that you propose.  The third heading, “Topics to Investigate,” indicates  that you are supposed to list the parts of the topic  about which your knowledge is incomplete.  The fourth heading, “Audience,” suggests that you  should also do some analysis of your target audience,  The section on “Methods and Procedures” asks you  to think about the various main stages  for completing the plan.  “Qualifications and Resources” asks you  to explain any special resources you have  that make you a better candidate than someone else  to produce the manual that you propose.  The seventh heading, “Work Schedule,”  indicates that you need to work out a clear  and detailed plan of the steps  that you can anticipate to complete the project.  The heading “Budget” contains a qualifier,  “if appropriate,” suggesting that you may not need to  include this section in your proposal if you find  that the cost of producing this manual will be quite low.  The final section of the proposal,  the “Call to Action,” includes a brief summary  of the main point of the proposal,  along with a clear statement of what the writer expects  the reader to do next and a positive,  forward-looking statement that expresses interest  and enthusiasm in the project.  Once you thoroughly understand the requirements  of the RFP after analysis,  you can begin to plan your own project ideas.  You need to build a persuasive argument for your ideas  and your qualifications, an argument  that will result in reader action, that is,  in your proposal being approved.  In this section we have discussed the analysis of an RFP.  That’s all.  Thank you!

