

1.1

﻿  Think about the many types of writing you do—  for example,  writing for school, to family and friends, or on your job?  What kind of writing would you consider to be technical writing?  How would you define technical writing?  Hello, everyone!  I'm Chen Meihua from Southeast University.  In this section,  I will provide you with an overview of technical writing  and will focus on its definition,  main features and purposes.  What is technical writing?  Technical writing is a form of written document  providing technical information  that helps readers to solve complex problems.  Then you may ask,  “How will technical information be relevant  to me since I am not a technician? ”  Actually almost every day,  we make decisions or take actions  that depend on technical information.  When we install or operate any new device,  from a washing machine to a new laptop,  it's the setup information that we look for.  Then how can you become a good technical writer?  In the following lessons  we will discuss instructions, reports, memos, procedures, etc.  And although there are various forms of technical writing,  almost any form of technical documents  shares certain common features.  Let's look at the following technical document.  This document is written and designed  to guide readers to use a programmable thermostat properly.  Being reader-centered is the first main feature  for technical writing.  The documents focus on  what people need to learn, do, or decide.  Here all the information is presented to help readers  to choose the right thermostat, and nothing else.  The second feature of technical writing  is clear organization and page design.  In this sample, right after the title,  there is an overview to introduce the main points of the document.  The heading here is phrased  as the main question readers will ask.  In the following parts,  paragraphs and sentences are listed using color  to highlight key items.  At the end, a table is used to make  it easy to read the comparative data.  As for page design,  we can see the headings, lists, type styles,  white space work together to provide easy information navigation.  Third, readable style and effective visuals.  And in this sample,  a clear table with easy-to-read data is provided  as a substitute for words describing the data,  so that a nontechnical audience can read,  compare and choose the right thermostat.  This is an effective visual.  Then what is technical writing for?  Most forms of technical writing address  one of three primary purposes:  to anticipate and answer questions,  that is, to inform your readers;  to enable people to perform a task or follow a procedure,  that is, to instruct your readers;  or to influence people's thinking,  that is, to persuade your readers.  Often, these purposes will overlap.  Now we will analyze the sample document  from these three purposes respectively.  Documents that inform  The sample technical writing you read  just now is primarily informational.  It is designed for a wide audience of readers  who may be asking the question  which thermostat is most suitable,  but know little about the technical details.  Documents that instruct  Instructional documents help people do something.  Action verbs and phrases,  such as “think about” and “decide” are clear and direct.  Three different models, “7-day models”,  “5+2-day models” and “5-1-models”  are listed for readers to choose the right thermostat.  Documents that persuade  Persuasion encourages people to take a desired action,  or to make a decision.  Let's read the sample document again.  The first paragraph, for example,  encourages readers to use a programmable thermostat  by pointing out how much a person  could save in yearly energy bills.  Nothing is more persuasive than data.  So, to inform, to instruct and to persuade,  these are the three purposes of technical writing.  Ok, so far, we have talked about what technical writing is,  its main features and its primary purposes.  Have you got it?  That's all for this lesson, thank you.



1.2

﻿  Think of something you did recently  which you told a number of people about.  Consider how your description of the incident changed  depending on whom you were talking to,  like instructors, or close friends.  Did the purpose of your talk change  when you switched audiences?  If so, how?  How did each audience affect your choice of words,  and the information you chose to include or omit?  Hello everyone,  in this section we will talk about  how to meet the needs of specific audiences  in technical writing.  All technical writing is intended for people  who will use and react to the information.  These people are considered to be the audience  for your document:  people who are reading the material  in order to do something or learn something.  Before you start writing, explore all you can about:  who will use your document?  why they will use it,  and how they will use it?  Who will use your document  --Primary and secondary audiences  When writing a technical document,  keep two audiences in mind.  Most documents are geared  to an immediate audience of readers.  That is your primary audience.  But most documents also have a secondary audience,  those individuals outside the immediate circle of people  who will be needing the information directly.  For instance,  a set of instructions for installing new software  might be directed primarily toward the computer  support staff who would be doing the installation.  The secondary audience for software instructions  might be managers,  who will check to see if the instructions comply  with company policy,  or lawyers,  who will make sure the instructions meet legal standards.  Generally, primary readers are decision makers  who requested the document.  Secondary readers are those  who will advise the decision makers,  or who will be affected by this decision in some way.  Why they will use it—  Primary and secondary purposes  Most forms of technical documents  fulfill a specific primary purpose.  The primary purpose,  whether to inform, to instruct, or to persuade,  will affect the document's overall shape and substance.  Many documents have one or more secondary purposes.  For example,  the primary purpose in a typical instruction manual  is to instruct, that is, to teach an audience  how to assemble or use the product.  But for ethical and legal reasons,  companies also want people to use the product safely.  A manual for a power tool or a lawnmower,  for instance, almost always begins  with a page that spells out safety hazards  and precautions that should be taken,  before instructing readers about  how to proceed with the equipment.  When planning your document,  start with a clear statement that identifies  the target audience as well as the document's  primary and secondary purposes.  For example,  “The purpose of my document  is to inform company employees of the new absentee policy  and to instruct them on how to follow the procedures properly,”  or  “The purpose of my document  is to inform my division's programmers  about the new antivirus software,  as well as to instruct them on how to install the software  and to persuade them of the importance  of running weekly virus scans.”  How they will use it—  Audience's technical background  In addition to determining the audiences  and the purposes of a document  from your own perspective,  you should also consider  how it will be used by audiences.  Do your readers simply want to learn facts  or understand concepts?  Will they act immediately on the information?  Or do they need step-by-step instructions?  So, you should adapt your writing  to their knowledge, interests, and needs.  Assessing your audience's technical background  before deciding whether your document  should be highly technical, semitechnical,  or nontechnical is essential.  Ok, so far we have talked about how to meet the needs  of specific audiences in technical writing.  In the next section, we will study a case.  That’s all for this section.  Thank you.



1.3

﻿  Hello everyone,  in this section we will study a case to see  how to meet the needs of specific audiences  in technical writing.  The following figure shows  a document's level of technicality.  Here, experts refer to readers with high level of technicality.  They expect to be presented with the facts and figures  they need without long explanations  as they can interpret the information by themselves.  The following passage  is an emergency treatment report written  by an emergency-room physician to the patient's doctor,  who needs an exact record  of symptoms, treatment, and results.  For her expert colleague,  this physician doesn't need to define the technical terms  such as, pulmonary edema, sinus rhythm.  Nor does she need to interpret lab findings such as,  elevated serum transaminase, 4+ protein.  She uses abbreviations  that her colleague clearly understands,  such as wbc, 5% D & W, BUN.  Because her colleague knows all  about specific treatments and medications,  such as defibrillation, Xylocaine drip,  she does not explain their scientific bases.  Her report answers concisely the main questions  she can anticipate from this particular reader:  What was the problem?  What was the treatment?  What were the results?  Informed persons are a semitechnical audience.  They have some technical background,  but not as much as the experts.  In this case,  the semitechnical audience might be the medical students.  The above medical report might appear  in a textbook for them.  Then the raw data need to be explained  to help the informed but nonexpert readers understand  what the data mean.  Knowing what medications the patient received  would be especially important  in answering this audience's central question:  How is a typical heart attack treated?  Here, all the raw data was explained  with highlight in yellow.  Let's focus on the second paragraph.  Here the normal values of blood pressure,  pulse rate and respiration  was presented to help medical students  to interpret the report results,  while medical experts know the normal values well.  Laypersons are a nontechnical audience.  They are those with no specialized training,  who look for the big picture instead of complex details.  They expect technical data to be translated  into words most people understand.  Laypersons are impatient with abstract data,  but they want enough background  to help them make the right decisions  or take the right actions.  The nontechnical version of the medical report  in this case might be written for the patient’s spouse.  This version mentions no specific medications,  lab tests, or normal values.  It merely summarized events and briefly explains  what they mean and why these particular treatments  were given.  All the explanations are highlighted.  Let's focus on the second paragraph again.  Here no data  for blood pressure,  pulse rate and respiration are provided.  Instead, it explains what the abnormal symptoms  mean in such a simple language  that the patient's spouse can easily understand.  Ok, so far we have talked about how to meet  the needs of specific audiences in technical writing.  We need to explain all we can about  who will use the documents,  the primary and secondary audiences;  why they will use it,  the primary and secondary purposes;  and how they will use it,  the audience's technical background.  That's all for this section.  Thank you.



1.4

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the ethical issues in technical writing.  We will discuss what ethics is  and how ethics is related to technical writing.  What is ethics?  Those moral beliefs and values  that help people decide  what is right or wrong make up ethics.  Many people have similar values,  believing in honesty, justice, equality,  for example.  Values help people set rules,  or principles, to guide their behavior.  When you decide to return a wallet to a stranger  who unknowingly dropped it,  you are making an ethical decision.  Your honesty motivates you to return the item  to its owner rather than keep it for yourself.  Acting ethically allows people to reap  the consequences of their behavior,  such as gaining the respect of others  and having access to the privileges of society.  Then, how is ethics related to technical writing?  let's look at the following situations:  Reporting and analyzing data honestly  When you put a lot of time and effort  into a research project,  it's frustrating when you can't  find the information you need  or when the information you find doesn't help you say  what you want to say.  What should you do?  Report and analyze data honestly!  You can explain why you think the evidence  is missing and how you propose to follow up  by continuing your research.  Balancing between production and safety  Sometimes, you may have to choose  between doing what you know is right and doing  what your employer or organization expects.  Let's look at the following example:  Companies often face the contradictory goals  of production and safety.  Production aims to produce a product  and make money on it,  whereas safety aims to spend money  to avoid accidents that may or may not happen.  When production receives first priority,  safety concerns may suffer.  In these circumstances,  you need to ask your supervisor.  Avoiding burying bad news in paragraphs  The most emphatic location in a paragraph  is the topic sentence,  in most cases,  the first sentence in a paragraph.  The second most emphatic location  is the end of the paragraph.  Do not bury bad news  in the middle of the paragraph,  hoping readers won't see it.  It would be misleading to structure  a paragraph like this:  Here, the writer has buried the bad news  in a paragraph that begins  with a topic sentence that appears to suggest good news.  The last sentence, too, suggests good news.  Using type sizes responsibly  Text set in large type contrasts  with text set in small type.  It makes sense to use large type  to emphasize headings and other important information.  But be careful with small type.  It is unethical to use excessively small type,  such as points or smaller to disguise information  that you don't want to stand out.  In general, a 2- to 10-point difference  between the headings and the body is acceptable.  Too many size variations,  however, suggest an eye-catching advertisement  rather than a serious text.  Ok, so far we have talked about what ethics  is and how ethics is related to technical writing.  We should therefore  report and analyze data honestly,  balance between production and safety,  avoid burying bad news in paragraphs,  and use type sizes responsibly.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section, thank you.



1.5

  Hello, everyone!  In this section, we will talk about  the writing process for technical documents.  Although every technical document is unique,  in most of your writing you will likely carry out  the tasks in a process consisting of five steps:  planning, drafting, revising,  editing and proofreading.  The frustrating part of writing,  however, is that these five steps are not linear.  That is, you don't plan the document,  then go on to drafting.  At any step, you might double back  to do more planning, drafting, or revising.  Even when you think you are almost done,  when you are proofreading,  you still might think of something  that would improve the planning.  That means you will need to go back  and rethink all five steps.  As the arrows in the figure indicate,  no single stage of the writing process  is complete until all stages are complete.  Now, let's take a close look at each step.  Planning  When planning, you need to:  Analyze your audience.  Who are your readers?  Who are primary and secondary audiences?  What are their technical backgrounds and expectations?  Analyze your purpose.  Why and how will your readers use the document?  After they have read the document,  what do you want them to know or to do?  Generate ideas about your subject.  Ask journalistic questions  like who, what, when, where, why, and how,  and brainstorm to get all the ideas  you want to include in your writing.  To brainstorm is a technique  for coming up with useful material.  Its aim is to produce as many ideas as possible.  Research additional information.  Unlike writing for school,  technical writing provides information  to help the business operate effectively.  Its purpose is not to show  the writer's knowledge of the topic.  There are two basic sources of information:  secondary sources and primary sources.  For both sources of information,  you need to know how to collect,  evaluate and document the right materials.  Organize and outline your document.  As you list ideas,  consider how to organize them.  The document type  may dictate the organizational pattern.  You can use these organizational patterns  to suit the document's purposes.  Select a design or a delivery method.  Design refers to the physical appearance  of documents and websites.  For printed documents,  design features include page layout,  typography,  and use of color.  Devise a schedule and a budget.  How much time will you need  to complete each task of the project?  Will you incur expenses for travel, research,  or usability testing?  Carefully devise a schedule and a budget  for your writing.  Drafting  After planning, you start to write.  When drafting,  you write the first, second, and third or more versions  of your document.  The order in which you write does not matter.  What does matter  is the order in which the reader reads.  Force a few words until they start to flow.  Drafting is like trying new paint:  you do not know whether you like the color  until you see it on the wall.  Revising  When you finish drafting,  you revise your document.  When revising,  you read your document and make changes  to content, organization,  and word choice.  Use your audience analysis  and purpose statement to guide you.  Because the content affects the other revision strategies,  start with the general content  and then move to the details.  Editing  The fourth stage of technical writing is editing.  Check your revised draft to improve  six aspects of your writing:  grammar, punctuation, style,  usage, diction, and mechanics.  Here diction means the word choice  and mechanics refer to matters  such as the use of numbers and abbreviations.  Proofreading  The last stage is proofreading.  Check to make sure you have typed  what you meant to type.  Don’t rely on the spell-checker  or the grammar-checker.  They will miss some errors  and flag correct words and phrases.  Ok, so far we have talked about  what we need to do in the five steps  of the technical writing process.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



1.6

﻿  Hello, everyone!  In this section we will talk about  the writing style and tone for technical documents.  No matter how technical your document is,  your audience will not understand the content  until the style is readable.  Readable style, of course,  requires correct grammar,  punctuation, and spelling.  But correctness alone is no guarantee of readability.  To help your audience spend less time reading,  you must spend more time revising  for a style that is clear, concise, fluent,  and appropriate in tone.  Clarity  Write clear sentences  that can be understood in one reading.  Clear writing enables people to read  each sentence only once  in order to fully grasp its meaning.  The following suggestions  will help you edit for clarity.  Like:  Use active voice whenever possible  In general, readers grasp the meaning  more quickly and clearly  when the writer uses the active voice,  for example “I did it.”  rather than the passive voice,  “It was done by me.”  Passive voice is unethical  if it obscures the person or other agent  when that responsible person  or agent should be identified.  Avoid overstuffed sentences  Give no more information in one sentence  than readers can retain and process.  Let's look at the following sentences.  It is an overstuffed one  and we can clear things up  by sorting out the relationships.  Here is the revised version.  Conciseness  Concise writing conveys the most information  in the fewest words.  But it does not omit those details necessary for clarity.  Use fewer words whenever fewer will do.  But remember the difference between  clear writing and compressed writing  is impossible to decipher.  Let's look at two sentences here.  Here sentence one is shorter  but too many nouns in a row,  like “new vehicle air conditioner compression  cut-off system specifications”  can create confusion and reading difficulty.  One noun can modify another.  But when two or more nouns modify a noun,  the string of words becomes hard to read and ambiguous.  Sentence two is concise and easy to understand.  Fluency  Fluent sentences are easy to read  because they provide clear connections,  variety, and emphasis.  To achieve fluency,  we can combine related ideas.  Let's look at the following examples.  The first example is a disconnected series of ideas  while the second example is a clear, concise,  and fluent combination of ideas.  Appropriate tone  Assume, for example,  that a friend is going to take over a job you have held.  You are writing your friend instructions  for parts of the job.  Here is your first sentence:  The example sentence imposes little distance  between you and the reader.  It uses the direct address,  you, and the humorous suggestion  to put on your running shoes.  The ironic use of glamorous suggests just the opposite:  that the job holds little glamor.  For a different reader, say,  the recipient of a company training manual,  you would choose some other opening:  The tone now is serious,  no longer intimate,  and you express no distinct attitude toward the job.  For another audience, say, clients or investors  who will read an annual report,  you might alter the tone again:  Here the businesslike shift from second-  to third-person address makes the tone  too impersonal for any writing addressed  to the trainees themselves.  Ok, so far we have talked about  how to achieve clarity, conciseness  and fluency in technical documents;  and how to achieve an appropriate tone  for different groups of readers.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section.  Thank you!

