

1.1

﻿  Think about the many types of writing you do—  for example,  writing for school, to family and friends, or on your job?  What kind of writing would you consider to be technical writing?  How would you define technical writing?  Hello, everyone!  I'm Chen Meihua from Southeast University.  In this section,  I will provide you with an overview of technical writing  and will focus on its definition,  main features and purposes.  What is technical writing?  Technical writing is a form of written document  providing technical information  that helps readers to solve complex problems.  Then you may ask,  “How will technical information be relevant  to me since I am not a technician? ”  Actually almost every day,  we make decisions or take actions  that depend on technical information.  When we install or operate any new device,  from a washing machine to a new laptop,  it's the setup information that we look for.  Then how can you become a good technical writer?  In the following lessons  we will discuss instructions, reports, memos, procedures, etc.  And although there are various forms of technical writing,  almost any form of technical documents  shares certain common features.  Let's look at the following technical document.  This document is written and designed  to guide readers to use a programmable thermostat properly.  Being reader-centered is the first main feature  for technical writing.  The documents focus on  what people need to learn, do, or decide.  Here all the information is presented to help readers  to choose the right thermostat, and nothing else.  The second feature of technical writing  is clear organization and page design.  In this sample, right after the title,  there is an overview to introduce the main points of the document.  The heading here is phrased  as the main question readers will ask.  In the following parts,  paragraphs and sentences are listed using color  to highlight key items.  At the end, a table is used to make  it easy to read the comparative data.  As for page design,  we can see the headings, lists, type styles,  white space work together to provide easy information navigation.  Third, readable style and effective visuals.  And in this sample,  a clear table with easy-to-read data is provided  as a substitute for words describing the data,  so that a nontechnical audience can read,  compare and choose the right thermostat.  This is an effective visual.  Then what is technical writing for?  Most forms of technical writing address  one of three primary purposes:  to anticipate and answer questions,  that is, to inform your readers;  to enable people to perform a task or follow a procedure,  that is, to instruct your readers;  or to influence people's thinking,  that is, to persuade your readers.  Often, these purposes will overlap.  Now we will analyze the sample document  from these three purposes respectively.  Documents that inform  The sample technical writing you read  just now is primarily informational.  It is designed for a wide audience of readers  who may be asking the question  which thermostat is most suitable,  but know little about the technical details.  Documents that instruct  Instructional documents help people do something.  Action verbs and phrases,  such as “think about” and “decide” are clear and direct.  Three different models, “7-day models”,  “5+2-day models” and “5-1-models”  are listed for readers to choose the right thermostat.  Documents that persuade  Persuasion encourages people to take a desired action,  or to make a decision.  Let's read the sample document again.  The first paragraph, for example,  encourages readers to use a programmable thermostat  by pointing out how much a person  could save in yearly energy bills.  Nothing is more persuasive than data.  So, to inform, to instruct and to persuade,  these are the three purposes of technical writing.  Ok, so far, we have talked about what technical writing is,  its main features and its primary purposes.  Have you got it?  That's all for this lesson, thank you.



1.2

﻿  Think of something you did recently  which you told a number of people about.  Consider how your description of the incident changed  depending on whom you were talking to,  like instructors, or close friends.  Did the purpose of your talk change  when you switched audiences?  If so, how?  How did each audience affect your choice of words,  and the information you chose to include or omit?  Hello everyone,  in this section we will talk about  how to meet the needs of specific audiences  in technical writing.  All technical writing is intended for people  who will use and react to the information.  These people are considered to be the audience  for your document:  people who are reading the material  in order to do something or learn something.  Before you start writing, explore all you can about:  who will use your document?  why they will use it,  and how they will use it?  Who will use your document  --Primary and secondary audiences  When writing a technical document,  keep two audiences in mind.  Most documents are geared  to an immediate audience of readers.  That is your primary audience.  But most documents also have a secondary audience,  those individuals outside the immediate circle of people  who will be needing the information directly.  For instance,  a set of instructions for installing new software  might be directed primarily toward the computer  support staff who would be doing the installation.  The secondary audience for software instructions  might be managers,  who will check to see if the instructions comply  with company policy,  or lawyers,  who will make sure the instructions meet legal standards.  Generally, primary readers are decision makers  who requested the document.  Secondary readers are those  who will advise the decision makers,  or who will be affected by this decision in some way.  Why they will use it—  Primary and secondary purposes  Most forms of technical documents  fulfill a specific primary purpose.  The primary purpose,  whether to inform, to instruct, or to persuade,  will affect the document's overall shape and substance.  Many documents have one or more secondary purposes.  For example,  the primary purpose in a typical instruction manual  is to instruct, that is, to teach an audience  how to assemble or use the product.  But for ethical and legal reasons,  companies also want people to use the product safely.  A manual for a power tool or a lawnmower,  for instance, almost always begins  with a page that spells out safety hazards  and precautions that should be taken,  before instructing readers about  how to proceed with the equipment.  When planning your document,  start with a clear statement that identifies  the target audience as well as the document's  primary and secondary purposes.  For example,  “The purpose of my document  is to inform company employees of the new absentee policy  and to instruct them on how to follow the procedures properly,”  or  “The purpose of my document  is to inform my division's programmers  about the new antivirus software,  as well as to instruct them on how to install the software  and to persuade them of the importance  of running weekly virus scans.”  How they will use it—  Audience's technical background  In addition to determining the audiences  and the purposes of a document  from your own perspective,  you should also consider  how it will be used by audiences.  Do your readers simply want to learn facts  or understand concepts?  Will they act immediately on the information?  Or do they need step-by-step instructions?  So, you should adapt your writing  to their knowledge, interests, and needs.  Assessing your audience's technical background  before deciding whether your document  should be highly technical, semitechnical,  or nontechnical is essential.  Ok, so far we have talked about how to meet the needs  of specific audiences in technical writing.  In the next section, we will study a case.  That’s all for this section.  Thank you.



1.3

﻿  Hello everyone,  in this section we will study a case to see  how to meet the needs of specific audiences  in technical writing.  The following figure shows  a document's level of technicality.  Here, experts refer to readers with high level of technicality.  They expect to be presented with the facts and figures  they need without long explanations  as they can interpret the information by themselves.  The following passage  is an emergency treatment report written  by an emergency-room physician to the patient's doctor,  who needs an exact record  of symptoms, treatment, and results.  For her expert colleague,  this physician doesn't need to define the technical terms  such as, pulmonary edema, sinus rhythm.  Nor does she need to interpret lab findings such as,  elevated serum transaminase, 4+ protein.  She uses abbreviations  that her colleague clearly understands,  such as wbc, 5% D & W, BUN.  Because her colleague knows all  about specific treatments and medications,  such as defibrillation, Xylocaine drip,  she does not explain their scientific bases.  Her report answers concisely the main questions  she can anticipate from this particular reader:  What was the problem?  What was the treatment?  What were the results?  Informed persons are a semitechnical audience.  They have some technical background,  but not as much as the experts.  In this case,  the semitechnical audience might be the medical students.  The above medical report might appear  in a textbook for them.  Then the raw data need to be explained  to help the informed but nonexpert readers understand  what the data mean.  Knowing what medications the patient received  would be especially important  in answering this audience's central question:  How is a typical heart attack treated?  Here, all the raw data was explained  with highlight in yellow.  Let's focus on the second paragraph.  Here the normal values of blood pressure,  pulse rate and respiration  was presented to help medical students  to interpret the report results,  while medical experts know the normal values well.  Laypersons are a nontechnical audience.  They are those with no specialized training,  who look for the big picture instead of complex details.  They expect technical data to be translated  into words most people understand.  Laypersons are impatient with abstract data,  but they want enough background  to help them make the right decisions  or take the right actions.  The nontechnical version of the medical report  in this case might be written for the patient’s spouse.  This version mentions no specific medications,  lab tests, or normal values.  It merely summarized events and briefly explains  what they mean and why these particular treatments  were given.  All the explanations are highlighted.  Let's focus on the second paragraph again.  Here no data  for blood pressure,  pulse rate and respiration are provided.  Instead, it explains what the abnormal symptoms  mean in such a simple language  that the patient's spouse can easily understand.  Ok, so far we have talked about how to meet  the needs of specific audiences in technical writing.  We need to explain all we can about  who will use the documents,  the primary and secondary audiences;  why they will use it,  the primary and secondary purposes;  and how they will use it,  the audience's technical background.  That's all for this section.  Thank you.



1.4

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the ethical issues in technical writing.  We will discuss what ethics is  and how ethics is related to technical writing.  What is ethics?  Those moral beliefs and values  that help people decide  what is right or wrong make up ethics.  Many people have similar values,  believing in honesty, justice, equality,  for example.  Values help people set rules,  or principles, to guide their behavior.  When you decide to return a wallet to a stranger  who unknowingly dropped it,  you are making an ethical decision.  Your honesty motivates you to return the item  to its owner rather than keep it for yourself.  Acting ethically allows people to reap  the consequences of their behavior,  such as gaining the respect of others  and having access to the privileges of society.  Then, how is ethics related to technical writing?  let's look at the following situations:  Reporting and analyzing data honestly  When you put a lot of time and effort  into a research project,  it's frustrating when you can't  find the information you need  or when the information you find doesn't help you say  what you want to say.  What should you do?  Report and analyze data honestly!  You can explain why you think the evidence  is missing and how you propose to follow up  by continuing your research.  Balancing between production and safety  Sometimes, you may have to choose  between doing what you know is right and doing  what your employer or organization expects.  Let's look at the following example:  Companies often face the contradictory goals  of production and safety.  Production aims to produce a product  and make money on it,  whereas safety aims to spend money  to avoid accidents that may or may not happen.  When production receives first priority,  safety concerns may suffer.  In these circumstances,  you need to ask your supervisor.  Avoiding burying bad news in paragraphs  The most emphatic location in a paragraph  is the topic sentence,  in most cases,  the first sentence in a paragraph.  The second most emphatic location  is the end of the paragraph.  Do not bury bad news  in the middle of the paragraph,  hoping readers won't see it.  It would be misleading to structure  a paragraph like this:  Here, the writer has buried the bad news  in a paragraph that begins  with a topic sentence that appears to suggest good news.  The last sentence, too, suggests good news.  Using type sizes responsibly  Text set in large type contrasts  with text set in small type.  It makes sense to use large type  to emphasize headings and other important information.  But be careful with small type.  It is unethical to use excessively small type,  such as points or smaller to disguise information  that you don't want to stand out.  In general, a 2- to 10-point difference  between the headings and the body is acceptable.  Too many size variations,  however, suggest an eye-catching advertisement  rather than a serious text.  Ok, so far we have talked about what ethics  is and how ethics is related to technical writing.  We should therefore  report and analyze data honestly,  balance between production and safety,  avoid burying bad news in paragraphs,  and use type sizes responsibly.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section, thank you.



1.5

  Hello, everyone!  In this section, we will talk about  the writing process for technical documents.  Although every technical document is unique,  in most of your writing you will likely carry out  the tasks in a process consisting of five steps:  planning, drafting, revising,  editing and proofreading.  The frustrating part of writing,  however, is that these five steps are not linear.  That is, you don't plan the document,  then go on to drafting.  At any step, you might double back  to do more planning, drafting, or revising.  Even when you think you are almost done,  when you are proofreading,  you still might think of something  that would improve the planning.  That means you will need to go back  and rethink all five steps.  As the arrows in the figure indicate,  no single stage of the writing process  is complete until all stages are complete.  Now, let's take a close look at each step.  Planning  When planning, you need to:  Analyze your audience.  Who are your readers?  Who are primary and secondary audiences?  What are their technical backgrounds and expectations?  Analyze your purpose.  Why and how will your readers use the document?  After they have read the document,  what do you want them to know or to do?  Generate ideas about your subject.  Ask journalistic questions  like who, what, when, where, why, and how,  and brainstorm to get all the ideas  you want to include in your writing.  To brainstorm is a technique  for coming up with useful material.  Its aim is to produce as many ideas as possible.  Research additional information.  Unlike writing for school,  technical writing provides information  to help the business operate effectively.  Its purpose is not to show  the writer's knowledge of the topic.  There are two basic sources of information:  secondary sources and primary sources.  For both sources of information,  you need to know how to collect,  evaluate and document the right materials.  Organize and outline your document.  As you list ideas,  consider how to organize them.  The document type  may dictate the organizational pattern.  You can use these organizational patterns  to suit the document's purposes.  Select a design or a delivery method.  Design refers to the physical appearance  of documents and websites.  For printed documents,  design features include page layout,  typography,  and use of color.  Devise a schedule and a budget.  How much time will you need  to complete each task of the project?  Will you incur expenses for travel, research,  or usability testing?  Carefully devise a schedule and a budget  for your writing.  Drafting  After planning, you start to write.  When drafting,  you write the first, second, and third or more versions  of your document.  The order in which you write does not matter.  What does matter  is the order in which the reader reads.  Force a few words until they start to flow.  Drafting is like trying new paint:  you do not know whether you like the color  until you see it on the wall.  Revising  When you finish drafting,  you revise your document.  When revising,  you read your document and make changes  to content, organization,  and word choice.  Use your audience analysis  and purpose statement to guide you.  Because the content affects the other revision strategies,  start with the general content  and then move to the details.  Editing  The fourth stage of technical writing is editing.  Check your revised draft to improve  six aspects of your writing:  grammar, punctuation, style,  usage, diction, and mechanics.  Here diction means the word choice  and mechanics refer to matters  such as the use of numbers and abbreviations.  Proofreading  The last stage is proofreading.  Check to make sure you have typed  what you meant to type.  Don’t rely on the spell-checker  or the grammar-checker.  They will miss some errors  and flag correct words and phrases.  Ok, so far we have talked about  what we need to do in the five steps  of the technical writing process.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



1.6

﻿  Hello, everyone!  In this section we will talk about  the writing style and tone for technical documents.  No matter how technical your document is,  your audience will not understand the content  until the style is readable.  Readable style, of course,  requires correct grammar,  punctuation, and spelling.  But correctness alone is no guarantee of readability.  To help your audience spend less time reading,  you must spend more time revising  for a style that is clear, concise, fluent,  and appropriate in tone.  Clarity  Write clear sentences  that can be understood in one reading.  Clear writing enables people to read  each sentence only once  in order to fully grasp its meaning.  The following suggestions  will help you edit for clarity.  Like:  Use active voice whenever possible  In general, readers grasp the meaning  more quickly and clearly  when the writer uses the active voice,  for example “I did it.”  rather than the passive voice,  “It was done by me.”  Passive voice is unethical  if it obscures the person or other agent  when that responsible person  or agent should be identified.  Avoid overstuffed sentences  Give no more information in one sentence  than readers can retain and process.  Let's look at the following sentences.  It is an overstuffed one  and we can clear things up  by sorting out the relationships.  Here is the revised version.  Conciseness  Concise writing conveys the most information  in the fewest words.  But it does not omit those details necessary for clarity.  Use fewer words whenever fewer will do.  But remember the difference between  clear writing and compressed writing  is impossible to decipher.  Let's look at two sentences here.  Here sentence one is shorter  but too many nouns in a row,  like “new vehicle air conditioner compression  cut-off system specifications”  can create confusion and reading difficulty.  One noun can modify another.  But when two or more nouns modify a noun,  the string of words becomes hard to read and ambiguous.  Sentence two is concise and easy to understand.  Fluency  Fluent sentences are easy to read  because they provide clear connections,  variety, and emphasis.  To achieve fluency,  we can combine related ideas.  Let's look at the following examples.  The first example is a disconnected series of ideas  while the second example is a clear, concise,  and fluent combination of ideas.  Appropriate tone  Assume, for example,  that a friend is going to take over a job you have held.  You are writing your friend instructions  for parts of the job.  Here is your first sentence:  The example sentence imposes little distance  between you and the reader.  It uses the direct address,  you, and the humorous suggestion  to put on your running shoes.  The ironic use of glamorous suggests just the opposite:  that the job holds little glamor.  For a different reader, say,  the recipient of a company training manual,  you would choose some other opening:  The tone now is serious,  no longer intimate,  and you express no distinct attitude toward the job.  For another audience, say, clients or investors  who will read an annual report,  you might alter the tone again:  Here the businesslike shift from second-  to third-person address makes the tone  too impersonal for any writing addressed  to the trainees themselves.  Ok, so far we have talked about  how to achieve clarity, conciseness  and fluency in technical documents;  and how to achieve an appropriate tone  for different groups of readers.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section.  Thank you!



2.1

﻿  Document design refers to the page layout of a document.  It includes the placement of visuals  and information on a page  and the connection between these elements,  both on that one page and throughout  the other pages of a multi-page document,  for example, a user manual or a technical report.  In designing a technical document,  you have five major goals:  To make a good impression on readers.  To help readers understand the structure  and hierarchy of the information.  To help readers find the information they need.  To help readers understand the information.  To help readers remember the information.  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to effectively design  a document to achieve these goals.  To design effective documents,  you need to understand a few basic design principles.  The four major principles in Robin William's  The Non-designer's Design Book  are proximity,  alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Although we will discuss each one  of these principles separately,  keep in mind that they are really interconnected.  Rarely will you apply only one principle.  Proximity  The principle of proximity is simple,  that is, related items should be grouped together.  If two items appear close to each other,  the reader will interpret them as one visual  unit rather than several separate units.  This helps organize information,  reduces clutter,  and gives the reader a clear impression.  Take a look at this typical business card layout.  How many separate elements do you see?  In other words,  how many times do your eyes stop to look at something?  Do your eyes stop five times?  Of course,  there are five separate items on this little card.  Where do you begin reading?  In the middle,  probably because that phrase is boldest.  Then, what do you read next?  From left to right or from top to bottom?  A problem with this card is that  not one of the items on the card  seems related to any other item.  It is not clear  where you should begin reading the card,  and it is not clear where you should finish.  If we group related elements together,  into closer proximity, see what happens:  Now is there any question  about where you begin to read the card?  Where do your eyes go next?  Do you know what you should read last?  With that one simple principle,  this card is now organized  both intellectually and visually.  And thus it communicates more clearly.  Alignment  The principle of alignment is that  you should consciously place text  and graphics on the page  so that the reader can understand  the relationships among these elements.  Although you might have separated certain elements  to indicate their relationships  by using the principle of proximity,  the principle of alignment  is what tells the reader that the invisible line  connecting the text is much stronger.  This is because it has a hard-vertical edge to follow.  Let's look at the business card again.  This example has a nice arrangement  with the text items grouped into logical proximity.  The text is center-aligned,  and centered on the page.  Although this is a legitimate alignment,  the edges are “soft”.  You don't really see the strength of the line.  Then, how about this one?  This has the same logical arrangement as the previous,  but it is now right-aligned.  Can you see the “hard” edge on the right?  The invisible line runs right down here,  connecting the separate pieces of text.  You can actually see the edge.  The strength of this edge  is what gives strength to the layout.  When items are aligned on the page,  the result is a stronger cohesive unit.  Ok, we have discussed two principles  of designing technical documents.  For proximity,  simply group related elements together  to create clearly defined sections.  For alignment,  find a strong alignment and stick to it.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section, thank you.



2.2

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to effectively design a document.  As discussed previously,  to design effective documents,  you need to understand a few basic design principles.  The four major principles in Robin William's  The Non-designer's Design Book  are proximity, alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Repetition  The principle of repetition is that you  should treat the same kind of information  in the same way to create consistent patterns.  For example,  all first-level headings should have the same typeface,  type size, spacing above and below, and so forth.  This repetition signals a connection  between headings,  making the content easier to understand.  Here is the same business card  we worked with previously.  In the second example below,  we have added a repetitive element:  a repetition of the strong, bold typeface.  Take a look at it,  and notice where your eye moves  when you get to the end of the information.  When you get to the phone number,  where do you look next?  Do you find that you go back to the other bold type?  This is a visual trick that designers have always  used to control a reader's eye,  to keep your attention on the page  as long as possible.  The bold repetition also helps unify the entire design.  This is a very easy way to tie pieces  of a design package together.  Contrast  The principle of contrast is one of  the most effective ways to add visual interest  to your page and to create  an organizational hierarchy among different elements.  Contrast works in several different ways  in technical documents.  You can contrast large type with small type;  a graceful oldstyle font  with a bold sans serif font;  a thin line with a thick line;  a cool color  with a warm color;  widely-spaced lines with closely-packed lines;  a small graphic with a large graphic.  But you cannot contrast 12-point type  with 14-point type.  You cannot contrast a narrow line  with a slightly wider line.  You cannot contrast dark brown with black.  If two items are not exactly the same,  make them different, really different.  Let's take the report cover you see here  and apply each of the four design principles in turn.  This is a rather typical but dull report cover:  centered, evenly spaced to fill the page.  If you couldn't read English,  you might think  there are six separate topics on this page.  Each line seems an element unto itself.  By applying the principle of proximity,  we put the title and subtitle close to each other.  It is now clear that those two topics are closely related.  When we move the author and date farther away,  it becomes instantly clear that  that they are not part of the title.  Even though the author's name  is far from the title,  there is a visual connection between the two elements  because of the alignment to each other.  The example on the previous page is also center aligned.  As you can see, though,  a flush left or flush right alignment,  as shown here, gives a stronger edge,  a stronger line for your eye to follow.  A flush left or flush right alignment often tends  to impart a more sophisticated look  than a centered alignment does.  By applying the principle of repetition,  the distinctive typeface in the title  is repeated in the author's name,  which strengthens their connection even though  they are physically far apart on the page.  The font for the other text holds a lighter weight.  By applying the principle of contrast,  we simply add the black boxes here.  Does the report cover look clear and sophisticated?  Ok, we have discussed the four principles  of designing a technical document.  They are proximity, alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



2.3

﻿  Using words only,  write directions from your school to your home.  Then draw a map with arrows to show the same route.  Which is easier to understand,  the written directions or the map?  The answer is obvious: the map.  Hello, everyone!  In this section we will talk about  how to design visual information in technical writing.  We will start by discussing the importance of visuals,  then we will cover different types of visuals  and how to choose the right ones.  Why visual matters?  Visuals are important in technical writing.  Visuals, like the map, make information easier  to interpret and remember.  When people look at a visual pattern,  such as a graph,  they get they get information quickly and efficiently.  The following line graph  has no verbal information.  The axes are not labeled,  nor is the topic identified.  But one quick glance,  without the help of gradual rise,  has risen sharply.  The graph conveys information in a way  plain text never could.  When we read the long list of numbers  in this passage,  can you visualize the trend depicted in the graph?  Types of visuals  In general, you should use visuals  whenever they can make your point  more clearly than text can.  What are the major types of visuals?  Let’s look at the following visuals and their types.  Can you match them?  Yes, Visual A is a table,  Visual B is a graph,  Visual C is a chart  and Visual D is a graphic illustration.  Let’s talk about these visuals one by one.  Tables  Tables display organized data across  columns and rows for easy comparison.  We often use numerical tables  to compare exact values and prose tables  to organize verbal information.  This numerical table compares years of potential life  lost before age  and numbers are aligned properly  for ease of reading.  And data are tallied where helpful.  This is a prose table.  Column headings lead into the information.  Phrases are brief and aligned for ease of reading.  Numbers enhance the verbal information.  And below the table, a note provides more details.  Graphs  Graphs translate numbers  into shapes, shades, and patterns.  There are various types of graphs,  including, bar graphs to show comparison,  line graphs to show a trend over time,  such as cost or other variables.  Let’s take a look at these two types of graphs.  Both of them have a title  to give readers the big picture.  Either the comparison or the trend  is easy to see with each axis clearly labeled.  Charts  Charts depict relationships via geometric arrows,  lines, and other design elements.  Let’s look at these charts.  Flowcharts are used to trace the steps,  or decisions in a procedure or process.  Gantt charts are used to depict  how the phases of a project relate.  Tree charts are used to show  how the parts of an idea or concept relate.  Pictograms use icons or other graphic devices  that represent the displayed items.  Let’s take a close look at one of them.  This flowchart is designed  to be read quickly in an emergency.  Simple “yes or no” and “collapsed or conscious”  questions lead to next steps.  Graphic illustrations  Graphic illustrations rely on pictures  rather than on data or words.  How do we choose the right visuals  since there are so many different types.  To select the most effective display,  answer these questions:  What is the purpose for using this visual?  Who is my audience for these visuals?  For question  think about your purpose for using this visual.  To convey facts and figures alone,  a table may be the best choice.  But if you want your audience to draw conclusions  from that data, you may use a graph  or chart to show comparisons.  For question  Expert audiences tend to prefer numerical tables,  flowcharts, schematics,  and complex graphs or diagrams  that they can interpret for themselves.  General audiences tend to prefer basic tables,  graphs, diagrams, and other visuals  that direct their focus  and interpret key points extracted from the data.  So, make a wise choice.  All right, we have discussed why visuals matter,  what the different types of visuals  are and how we should choose the right ones.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



2.4

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to create a design  that works for your readers.  To design effective technical documents,  you should aim to achieve a consistent look  for your pages,  to highlight certain material and to aid navigation.  Shaping the page  In shaping a page,  consider its look,  feel, and overall layout.  The following suggestions will help  you shape appealing and usable pages.  Provide page numbers, headers, and footers.  For a long document,  count your title page as page i,  without numbering it,  and number all front matter pages,  including the table of contents and abstract,  with lowercase Roman numerals ii, iii, iv.  Number the first text page and subsequent pages  with Arabic numerals   3.  Along with page numbers,  headers and footers appear in the top  and bottom page margins, respectively.  These provide chapter or article titles,  authors' names, dates,  or other publication information.  Use a grid.  A page grid is like a map  by which you plan where the text,  the graphics and the white space will go.  By subdividing a page into modules,  grids help readers make sense of material.  The following shows a sample of grid patterns.  Brochures and newsletters typically employ  a two- or three-column grid, or vertical grid.  Most memos, letters, and reports  use a single-column grid, or horizontal grid.  And web pages often use a combined grid.  Use white space to create areas of emphasis.  In the examples here,  notice how the white space pulls  your eye toward the pages in different ways.  In example one,  the eye moves to the “gutter” between the columns.  In example two,  the white space draws readers to the middle paragraph.  In example three,  white space gives each paragraph equal weight.  Make lists for easy reading  Depending on the list's contents,  highlight each item  with some kind of visual or verbal signal.  As shown here,  a bulleted list makes items easy to locate,  a numbered list highlights the order of steps,  and a checklist indicates requirements  to be satisfied.  Styling the words and letters  Select an appropriate typeface  All typefaces are divided into two broad categories:  serif and sans serif.  Serifs are the fine lines that extend horizontally  from the main strokes of a letter.  Serif type makes printed body copy more readable  because the horizontal lines  “bind the individual letters”  and thereby guide the reader's eyes  from letter to letter.  Serif fonts look traditional,  the sort you see in newspapers or formal reports.  Sans serif type is purely vertical,  clean-looking and businesslike.  “Sans”, in French means “without”.  Sans serif is ideal for technical material,  like numbers, equations,  for marginal comments,  headings, examples, tables, and captions,  and any other material set off from the body copy.  Sans serif is also more readable  in projected environments such as  overhead transparencies and PowerPoint slides.  Use full caps sparingly  Long passages in full capitals are hard to read  because uppercase letters  lack ascenders and descenders.  Use full caps as section headings,  like INTRODUCTION,  or to highlight a word or phrase.  Adding emphasis  Once you have selected the appropriate font,  you can use different features  to highlight important elements  such as headings, special terms,  key points, or warnings.  These features include indention, lines,  boldface,  small or large type sizes and color.  Whichever options you select, be consistent.  Using headings for access and orientation  You can phrase your headings in various ways,  such as providing topic headings  by using a word or short phrase,  statement headings by using a sentence,  or question headings by posing the questions  in the same way readers are likely to ask them.  Examples of these three ways are listed here.  However,  you should make headings visually consistent.  Along with being visually consistent,  headings of the same level  should also be grammatically parallel.  All right, in this section we have talked about  shaping the page,  styling the words and letters,  adding emphasis,  and using headings for access and orientation.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section. Thank you.



3.1

﻿  Hello, everyone!  Today we are going to talk about correspondence.  Presenting yourself effectively in correspondence.  Communication is essential for being able to act  and make decisions effectively in the workplace.  You will communicate every day at work,  sharing and exchanging information.  Some communication can take place face-to-face,  while a great deal of communication  is conducted through text messages,  emails,  and memos.  All these may be used for brief correspondence.  When writing correspondence,  pay attention to the following steps  of the writing process.  Step 1--Prewriting,  or we can call it Planning.  You need to determine your purposes,  whether you are going to inform, instruct,  persuade, or build rapport.  You need to clarify your audience.  And then you need to choose the correct tone  and content for your audience and purpose.  Another important consideration is  the correct communication channel.  Here are the main characteristics of each major type.  Messages.  Messaging is effective  for simple messages communicated  between people on the move.  Memos.  This type of correspondence is  moderately formal and, therefore, appropriate  for people within your organization.  Email.  This type of correspondence is best for quick,  relatively informal communication  with one or many recipients.  Emails can be stored, forwarded easily.  In addition,  the writer can attach other files to an email message.  Step 2--Writing, or Drafting.  Once you have determined the objectives  and considered your audience,  your next step is to draft your document.  In doing so,  you need to organize the content.  If your supporting details are presented randomly,  your audience will be confused.  So you need to choose a method of organization  and develop your content logically.  Step 3--Rewriting,  to be more specific,  revising, editing and proofreading.  Sometimes you might need to  write correspondence quickly,  but you still need to do it carefully.  Revise, edit and proofread everything  before you send it or publish it.  If possible, let a peer or colleague read your draft.  If you want to present yourself effectively  in correspondence,  you need to follow certain principles  of effective communication.  Use the appropriate level of formality.  People are sometimes tempted  to use informal writing in the workplace.  Please DON'T do that.  Everything you write while working  is legally the property of the organization  for which you work.  Your documents may be read by your boss,  and may even appear in a court of law.  Therefore, use a moderately formal tone  to avoid potential embarrassment.  Communicate correctly.  Correct writing is free of errors.  Sending correspondence that contains language errors  is unprofessional,  because it suggests a lack of respect  for your reader and for yourself.  It also causes your reader to think  that you are careless about your job.  The key to accomplishing this task is using  the "you attitude", that means,  looking at the situation from the reader's point of view.  Communicate honestly.  Communicating honestly shows respect  for your reader and for yourself.  Why is dishonesty a big problem in correspondence?  Because the topics discussed in business correspondence  often relate to the writer's professionalism  and the quality of his or her work.  For example, a salesperson is going to write  to a customer, explaining  why a product did not arrive on time.  The professional approach is to tell the truth.  If you mislead a reader in explaining  why the shipment didn't arrive on time,  the reader will likely double-check the facts,  and conclude that you are trying to avoid responsibility.  In addition, effective correspondence requires  another important element:  seeking the goodwill of readers.  Goodwill is a feeling of good intentions  and the value of doing things that  create mutual trust and respect.  Effective business correspondence  fosters goodwill  through its word choice and message.  You can create goodwill in writing  the same way you create the bonds of a friendship.  The following table suggests some of the characteristics  of effective correspondence  as well as traits the writer should avoid.  Communicate effectively and develop goodwill  with concise language,  accuracy and completeness,  professional appearance,  conventional format,  logical organization,  standard English usage.  You will hinder goodwill  and communicate ineffectively with  fuzzy, uncertain words that take up readers' time  with details they do not need;  inaccurate, incomplete information  creating misunderstandings and problems;  sloppy appearance,  making you and your organization appear  incompetent and careless;  unfamiliar format that confuses the readers;  illogical organization,  frustrating readers' efforts to follow your thinking;  grammatical and punctuation errors  and misspelled words,  causing you and your organization appear  uneducated and careless.  Text messages, e-mails, memos,  not only communicate a message  but also serve as a way to establish or maintain  a positive working relationship with your readers  and convey a professional image  of yourself and your organization.  Thank you for watching.



3.2

﻿  Writing messages.  Text messaging refers to the delivery of  exchange of brief written messages  via mobile phones or networks.  It allows both real-time text communications  and the transfer of text or other files.  Text messaging is effective  for simple messages communicated  between people on the move,  and especially useful for those  who are working in an environment  that demands near-instant,  brief written exchanges between two or more participants.  The following are the benefits of text messages.  Increased speed of communication.  Improved communication efficiency  for colleagues and customers  at a distance in real time.  Less intrusive communication channel  than telephone calls.  Low cost compared with long-distance telephone rates.  Multitasking allows the writer to deal with  more than one task,  such as writing an e-mail to a customer  while simultaneously receiving text messages  from a colleague.  Decreased intimidation  with avoiding person-to-person situations.  Easy documentation by recording all the dialogues  and clarifying any later misconception.  But there are some potential problems  with text messages.  Security issues.  Text message users are vulnerable  to hackers and technical breakdowns.  As a result,  a company could lose important,  confidential documents.  Lost productivity.  Text messaging can lead to job downtime.  Usually we tend to type more slowly than we talk.  A brief text messaging conversation  can lead to hours of lost productivity.  Employee misuse and distraction.  Text messaging may also lead to personal messages  rather than job-related communication  with colleagues or customers.  Reduced professionalism.  Due to the conversational nature of text messages,  people tend to relax their professionalism  and forget the rules of politeness  in workplace communication.  In order to avoid these potential problems,  consider the following suggestions:  1. Decide whether text messages are suitable  for the writing situation.  Use text messages for speed and convenience.  If you need length and detail, other options,  such as e-mails and reports, are much better choices.  In addition, sensitive topics  should never be handled through text messaging.  These should be dealt with by telephone calls  or face-to-face meetings.  2. Consider the length and formality  of the text messages.  A unique characteristic of text messages is  its demand for conciseness.  Remember, busy professionals may receive  a great volume of text messages,  so your messages must be concise and specific.  And you should also know the formality the readers expect.  3. Clearly and briefly explain the context of your message  so that the readers will understand.  For instance, when you respond to a question,  make sure your readers realize  which question you are answering.  4. Summarize decisions.  Messaging is great for collaboration,  but it is not so formal.  Once conclusions have been reached,  the group leader should e-mail everyone involved.  5. Document important information.  For future reference, you must archive key text.  6. Plan for handling emotions effectively.  Do not flame.  One possible way to convey feelings  is through the use of emoticons,  such as the smiley face.  Finally, let's talk about  how to write text messages effectively.  To set up routine text message exchanges,  work with those with whom  you regularly exchange messages  to find the appropriate software or tool to use.  The second step is to add to your contact list  the user names of those  with whom you regularly exchange messages.  Another necessary step is to understand  your employer's messaging policies,  such as limitations on sending personal messages  during work hours or requirements concerning confidentiality.  Then you are ready to write.  Because of the conversational nature,  text messages have no format,  and the tone is informal.  Most software for text messages  has a limit on the number of characters per message.  Many who send text messages use abbreviations  and shortened spellings,  such as "u" for "you".  Be sure that your reader will understand  such abbreviations.  When in doubt, avoid them.  The following is an example  of a text message exchange with a business partner.  Notice that the correspondents use an informal style  that includes abbreviations  with which both are familiar,  such as NP for no problem,  and QSG for Quick Start Guide.  All messages are simple and short,  demonstrating they can not only help people  exchange information quickly,  but also build rapport among colleagues  and team members.  In summary,  if you want to write text messages effectively,  you need to:  consider your audience and purpose,  keep text messages brief and to the point,  avoid too many abbreviations,  know when to end the conversation,  be professional in tone and style,  avoid discussing confidential topics.  Thanks for watching.



3.3

﻿  Writing Emails.  Email functions in the workplace  as a primary medium to exchange information  and share electronic files  with colleagues, clients, and customers.  Email messages range from short,  informal notes to longer,  more formal communications with clients and professionals.  You may also attach memos, photos,  and other files to emails.  Now, email has become the most common form  of written workplace communication.  Why is email so important?  First, email can quickly and efficiently address  an individual, a group within an organization,  readers from outside the organization.  One email message can reach  thousands of readers in seconds,  and these readers can forward that email to others.  Second, email is useful  when people are in different time zones  or have different working schedules.  You can send an email at 00am,  and your colleague can read it in the morning.  Third, writers can include attachments,  such as scans of print documents,  to email, thus improving work efficiency.  Forth, email is cost effective  because it is paper-free.  With the ability to attach files,  you can send many kinds of documentation  without paying fees.  Fifth, email has additional value  when it comes to documentation.  Email provides a company with extensive records  for future reference.  Now let's talk about the parts and format of email.  A standard email begins  with a heading section  containing To, From, and Subject.  Optional features include distribution notation,  attachment notation,  sender's contact information  and complimentary closing.  Like any workplace document,  an effective email message should have a brief introduction  that gets right to the point,  a clear body section with transitions  between each paragraph,  and a brief conclusion that often requires action.  This picture illustrates a standard workplace email.  Header.  Header contains From, To,  Subject, plus CC and BC or Bcc.  An email should have a specific subject line.  We know corporate employees  often receive lots of email messages each day.  In order to ensure your messages are read,  you need to avoid uninformative subject lines,  such as "Important Message" or "Hi".  Instead, you should include an effective subject line,  such as  "Subject: Meeting Dates for Sales Conference".  CC stands for courtesy copy.  All your readers will know that you are sending  a copy to this person or group.  BC or Bcc stands for blind copy or blind courtesy copy.  None of your readers will know that  you are sending a copy to this person or group.  By naming your readers at the start,  you are showing respect for them.  In this paragraph,  you need to clarify the writer's purpose,  and get right to the point.  You may begin like this, "I'm writing to..."  This part explains background details  and describes ideas.  Usually you can invite further actions,  state specific requirements and deadlines.  You need to end politely,  and write a complimentary closing,  such as "Yours sincerely", "Regards".  You may create a signature  which includes your contact information,  which can be attached automatically to your emails.  Here are some tips  to help you convey your messages effectively.  1. Find out your organization's email policies.  Most companies have written policies  that discuss circumstances  under which you may and may not use email,  principles you should use in writing emails.  2. Recognize your audience.  Email messages can be sent to managers,  co-workers, subordinates,  and customers, among other audiences.  Your reader will be high tech or low tech;  thus, you should factor in levels of knowledge.  If your message is sent internationally,  you also need to consider your readers' language.  Even email platforms display text differently.  3. Identify yourself.  Identify yourself by name, affiliation, or title.  Creating a signature  with all necessary information is a good idea,  which can make the corporate contact much convenient.  4. Provide an effective subject line.  An informative and specific subject line  can make sure your messages are read.  5. Keep your email messages brief  and each paragraph short.  You should skip a line between paragraphs  and help them access information quickly.  Some readers may only look at  the first screen of your message.  So, you should limit your messages  to one screen if possible.  6. Organize your e-mail message.  Begin with introductory sentences to tell the readers  why you are writing and what you are writing about.  Then, clarify your points thoroughly.  Use the concluding sentences to tell the reader  what is next.  7. Proofread your email message.  Errors will undermine your professionalism  and your company's credibility.  Recheck before you send the message.  8. Be careful when sending an attachment.  Tell your reader within the body of the email message  that you have attached a file.  Zipped files are necessary  only if an attachment is quite large.  9. Be courteous and professional.  Try to avoid sending emails which are TYPED ALL IN CAPS.  It seems that you are very angry.  Email has become a predominant means  of routine correspondence in business and industry.  Email is fast and efficient,  and also provides an electronic record.  So organize your mail messages carefully  and follow your organization's email policies.  Thank you!



3.4

﻿  Writing memos.  Memos are an important means  by which employees communicate with each other.  Memos are used within organizations  for routine correspondence,  short reports, proposals,  and other internal documents.  Memos are important for interpersonal communication  within your working environment for several reasons.  1. Memos are written to a wide range of readers,  so it greatly improves the efficiency  of information transfer.  2. Memos are very flexible  and can be written for many different purposes,  such as documentation of expenses,  hiring and firing, and sales decisions.  Usually, memos contain the following key points:  identification lines,  introduction,  discussion,  conclusion,  audience recognition,  appropriate memo style and tone.  Identification lines.  Identification lines  include Date, To, From, and Subject.  The subject line summarizes the memo's content.  One-word subject lines  do not communicate effectively.  The "After" sample is much better  than the "Before" sample,  since the "Before" sample has a topic  but is missing a focus.  Introduction.  Get to the point in the introductory sentences.  Write one or two clear introductory sentences  which tell your readers  what topic you are writing about and why you are writing.  The following is an example of an introductory sentence.  Discussion.  This section allows you to develop your content specifically.  Readers might not read every line of your memo.  The longer the paragraph,  the more likely your reader is to avoid reading it.  So make your text more reader-friendly  by using white space, boldfacing,  creating headings, or inserting graphics.  Look at the following two samples,  and you can see that the "After" sample  is much more reader-friendly.  Conclusion.  Conclude your memo with "thanks"  and directive action, as needed.  A pleasant conclusion could motivate your readers.  And a directive close tells your readers exactly  what you want them to do next  or what your plans are.  Here is an example.  The following is a template for memos,  including Introduction, Discussion and Conclusion.  Before you start to write,  think carefully about the following issues:  1. Audience recognition.  Memos are used to correspond inside an organization.  Therefore,  memos are mainly for in-house audiences.  Since readers of memos are an internal audience,  more acronyms and internal abbreviations  can be used in memos.  2. Style and tone.  Memos are usually only one page long.  Use simple words, short sentences,  specific detail, and highlighting techniques.  In addition, they strive for an informal, friendly tone.  The following examples show the different styles.  Obviously the second example is much better.  3. Planning memos.  As with planning text messages and emails,  prewriting memos requires writers  to consider the audience's expectations.  Readers usually expect memos to be brief  and to cover one topic.  However, make sure the memo explains the topic fully.  You should plan to include all of the specific details  that your audience may need.  Furthermore,  you sometimes choose to write memos  to document discussions, decisions, or actions.  When you write a memo,  organize it so that it is easy to follow.  Consider these five organizational elements:  A specific subject line,  a clear statement of purpose,  a brief summary,  informative headings,  and a prominent recommendation.  Now, let’s have a look at the sample memo again.  This is a memo from Purchasing Department  to the Manager of the company.  This memo has complete identification lines.  And the subject line indicates that  this memo is about “Replacement of Mobile Phones”.  Then the introduction states the purpose of this memo,  purchasing options and intended actions.  The discussion analyzes the criteria used to decide  which mobile phone to purchase.  Tables are used to ensure reader-friendly ease of access.  The conclusion summarizes the importance of the action.  It also ends in a personalized and positive tone  to ensure reader involvement.  If you want to write an effective memo like this one,  take on board the following suggestions:  Do not overuse or misuse memos.  Use email or telephone  when you need to ask a quick question  or resolve a simple issue.  For a sensitive topic,  have a face-to-face conversation.  Focus on one topic.  If you need to address more than one topic,  consider other formats,  or write more than one memo.  Be brief but sufficiently informative.  Recipients expect memos  that are short and to the point,  but not at the expense of clarity.  Be sure the tone of your memo is  polite and respectful.  Even with an in-house audience,  showing respect and kindness is necessary.  Avoid sounding too formal or too informal  for the topic or audience.  Follow the standard format required  by your organization.  Use white space, headings,  and bullets, as needed.  These features provide visible structure to your memo.  Use tables, charts,  and other visuals to display information  and to achieve emphasis, as needed.  Check spelling, grammar and style.  Proofread, or ask a colleague to proofread the memo.  Determine whether you should use  paper or email to send your memo.  Paper memos take longer to reach the reader  but may convey a more serious purpose,  whereas digital distribution is quicker  but may be overlooked by the reader.  Distribute to the right people.  Be sure it reaches only those  who need the information.  At the same time,  don't leave out anyone  who needs to read your messages.  Thank you very much!



4.1

﻿  Madison is a few months away from graduating from university.  Prior to applying for jobs,  she needs to get started with writing a resume.  She understands that  an attractive and well-crafted resume  can affect a potential employer’s first impression.  She decides to turn to Ms. Morris,  a career adviser at the Career Center of her school.  Ms. Morris tells Madison that to write an effective resume  she first needs to know the different types of resumes.  Ms. Morris explains that  there are two common resume styles:  the chronological resume and the functional resume.  The chronological résumé organizes information  in reverse chronological order for each section.  That is, what is most recent is considered  to be most important and should be listed first.  A chronological resume typically includes  the following sections:  Contact information  Objectives/goals  Education  Experience  Professional memberships and affiliations  Licenses and certifications  Skills  Awards and honors  Recent graduates usually use the chronological résumé  because in most cases they lack the enough  record of skills and accomplishments.  If you have limited education,  or if you have a lot of professional work experience,  you might want to create a functional résumé  that organizes information around an applicant’s unique skills.  In such type of resume,  sections are presented in priority order—  from most important to least important.  Whatever you present as most important  should be the information  that is most important to the prospective employer.  When you have impressive work experience,  that experience may be more important  to your employer than education.  If you are a recent graduate without much work experience,  you may want to include education first  as the most important qualification.  If you use a skills summary,  you should place it early on the resume.  That way, employers who quickly skim your resume  can focus on your major qualifications  even if they do not read further.  Tailored to suit the requirements of a particular job,  a functional resume has the following common sections:  Contact information  Summary of the most important qualifications for the job  Professional experience categorized  by skills rather than positions held  Employment history,  which is often a short listing of positions  in reverse chronological order  Education,  which is usually in reverse chronological order  After Madison has learned the two resume styles,  Ms. Morris illustrates the differences  of the two styles with two sample resumes.  This resume from Chris  is an example of a chronological resume.  Chris is applying for a job  that is related directly to his degree.  With only two years of related work experience,  he believes that his degree is his strongest asset  and that his related work experience (co-op)  is his next strongest asset.  Notice that he does not describe his other work experience  because it is not related to his job objective.  This is a functional resume from Carol.  Her circumstances are different from Chris’,  and a functional resume meets her needs.  Carol is not applying for her first full-time job  upon graduating from college;  she is an experienced mechanical engineering  manager applying for a managerial position.  Her resume focuses on her management experience  instead of employment chronology.  Now Madison has got a clear idea of the formats  of the chronological and functional resumes.  Ms. Morris goes on to explain the advantages  and disadvantages of the two resume styles.  The chronological resume offers several advantages.  First, it is easy to follow for the reader,  perhaps because the chronological resume  is more commonly used.  Second, this type of format highlights  the candidates’ most recent experience,  which is often the most relevant.  It is also easy to follow a career progression  with this type of resume.  Although the chronological resume is widely used,  it is not ideal for everyone.  It may be so similar to other resumes  that it does not stand out and may get lost  in the sameness of other chronological resumes.  While a functional resume can help an applicant  highlight his accomplishment and skills,  and de-emphasize short stints within a career,  it doesn’t clearly show an applicant’s education  and career development over time.  For example, it may not show the fact  that an applicant has a series of rapid promotions,  which implies competency, drive, and dedication.  Before Madison leaves, Ms. Morris emphasizes  that a resume should be a short one or two-page  document concisely describing what is relevant  for a position she is seeking.  She also reminds Madison  that there is not a resume fit  for all the jobs she is applying for  and that each should be customized for a particular job.  Having learned about chronological and functional resumes,  now Madison knows  what type of resume she is going to compose.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



4.2

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this lesson!  I’m going to take you through the different sections  of a resume by means of two examples.  The first resume you see here uses the format  of a reverse chronological résumé  to show a clear pattern of job experience.  Most chronological résumés have six basic elements:  Identifying Information,  Career Objective or Summary of Qualifications,  Education, Employment History,  Interests and Activities, and References.  Identifying Information includes your full name,  address, phone number, and e-mail.  After the identifying information,  there is a statement of objective or a summary of qualifications.  Career Objective is specific  and tailored to the job the applicant is seeking.  When drafting the statement, follow these suggestions:  First, state only the goals or duties explicitly mentioned,  or clearly implied, in the job advertisement.  Second, be specific.  You accomplish little by just writing  “Position offering opportunities  in the field of hotel management,  where I can use my communication and analytical skills.”  Specify what kind of position you want.  Sometimes job applicants with more experience  tend to write a summary of qualifications in this section.  This is usually a brief paragraph  that highlights three or four important skills  or accomplishments.  For example, an applicant with management  experience may summarize his qualifications this way:  Quality-driven mechanical engineering manager  whose tenure with Exhibit Design Lab  has been distinguished by exemplary-rated performance  and proven results.  Developer of next-generation exhibit design solutions  that have led to increased leads and sales.  Qualifications reinforced by strong aptitudes  in reliability engineering,  system troubleshooting,  and Lean Six Sigma principles.  The next is Education section  if you are a student or a recent graduate.  If you have substantial professional experience,  place Employment History section before Education section.  Education section lists  the full name of the school and its location;  degree and the date of graduation.  After the degree abbreviation (such as BS, BA, A.A, or MS),  list your academic major —  for example, “A.A. in Hotel and Restaurant Management,  minor in General Business.”  other relevant details.  Employment History presents at least the basic information  about each job you have held:  the dates of employment,  the organization’s name and location,  and your position or title.  Then, add carefully what you did and accomplished.  When you describe positions or responsibilities,  use the active voice like  “Scheduled custodial and room service staff”  rather than the passive voice  “Custodial and room service staff were scheduled by me”.  Note that writers often omit the “I” at the start of sentences.  Here the writer doesn’t say  “I scheduled custodial and room service staff”.  One further suggestion is listing jobs  in reverse chronological order to highlight  the most recent employment.  Interests and Activities section is the appropriate place  for several kinds of information about you:  participation in activities, skills, interests or hobbies.  Or like this writer, use a Personal section  to combine the related personal information  like awards, skills, and activities  that may be relevant to a job  to display his leadership, language, and teamwork.  Potential employers will want to learn more about  you from your professors and previous employers.  These people who are willing to speak or write  on your behalf are called references.  When no references are included,  use an “available on request” statement to substitute.  Well, so much for the content of a chronological resume.  Now let’s turn to a functional resume.  Like in a chronological resume,  here the writer also includes  contact information and objective.  What’s different is that a functional résumé  includes a separate section,  usually called “Skills” or “Skills and Abilities”.  You present Skills section  at the start to emphasize your professional attributes.  In this example, the writer emphasizes three skill areas  appropriate to the job,  with specific accomplishments in bullet list format:  sales or marketing skills,  communication and document design skills,  and organizational or management skills.  His goal, of course,  is to highlight the skills the employer is seeking.  Different from the corresponding section  in a chronological resume,  the Employment section here contains a list of positions rather  than descriptions of what the writer did in each position.  OK, now, as you have learned in this lesson,  whatever style you may choose,  a resume contains some basic elements:  contact information,  objective or summary of qualifications,  education, employment history,  interests and activities,  skills and abilities, and references.  In a functional resume,  you might want to elaborate on your professional skills  and knowledge in a separate Skills section  which is usually put first on your resume.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



4.3

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this lesson,  I’ll take you through some elements in composing  a professional resume.  To start with, let’s look at two resumes.  Which one is an attractive resume? And why?  Certainly, the second one is attractive  because it’s much easier to read and makes  a much better impression on readers.  The unattractive résumé, however,  with its inadequate margins, poor balance,  and poor line spacing, is a chore to read.  So what makes an attractive resume?  Let’s first take a look at the appearance of a resume.  A résumé has to appear neat and professional.  It should have Generous margins.  Leave a one-inch margin on all four sides.  Balance.  Arrange the information so that the page  has a balanced appearance.  Clear organization.  The line spacing between items should be greater  than the line spacing within an item.  That is, there should be more space  between your Education section  and your Employment section  than between items within either of those sections.  Appropriate indentation.  When you arrange items in a vertical list,  indent turnovers,  the second and subsequent lines of any item, a few spaces.  For example, this computer-skills section  from a résumé could be confusing.  But when the second line of the long entry is indented,  the arrangement is much easier to understand:  Next, let’s look at Word Choice.  When writing a resume,  you want to present information in as few words as possible.  A resume has its own grammar rules:  Sentences and paragraphs are not used  because they take too long to read.  Instead, resumes are written in fragments,  lists, descriptive phrases, and verbs.  How to use nouns?  For naming sections of Activities, Honors,  Achievements, and Awards,  use a list of nouns or nouns+descriptive phrases.  Here is an example:  All you read here are nouns+descriptive phrases  such as Knowledge of both Windows  and Macintosh environments,  Ability to program in a variety of languages,  and Experience installing and configuring networks.  Then how to use verbs?  Verb+what is a quick,  effective phrase to describe skills,  qualifications, and work experience.  Use action verbs to stress  what you can do for an employer.  Add details to the phrase to show more specific information.  As for the tense of verbs, use present tense for jobs  you currently hold and past tense for jobs you held.  If you have (or had) a title,  include the title before your list of duties  followed by a colon.  Also organize your list of duties in order of importance.  Finally I’d like to talk about  Specific Language in a resume.  Now let’s compare the following language  to detect the differences.  The language in the right column  is so vague that a potential employer  is unable to prove your qualifications  and tailor your resume to the skills the employer needs.  In contrast,  the language in the left column provides specific  and quantifiable information  for the potential employer  to evaluate your credentials and accomplishments.  This objective expresses a particular position  in a particular banking institution.  This one responds specifically to the job announcement.  This work description responds to query  for experience with EPA and OSHA,  and this specifies how many and when.  Therefore, the language in the left column  is acceptable in a resume.  So to recap briefly, attractive appearance,  appropriate word choice and specific language  make a professionally composed resume.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.



4.4

﻿  Many people know job applications require a resume,  but have forgotten the importance of taking the time  to submit a cover letter along with their resume.  The main purpose of the cover letter is to explain  how your credentials fit the particular job.  Another purpose of the letter  is to highlight specific qualifications or skills.  An application letter usually consists  of an introduction, body, and conclusion.  Next, we’ll see what you need say in each section.  The introductory paragraph has four specific functions:  identifying the position you are interested in.  identifying your source of information.  stating that you wish to be considered for the position.  forecasting the rest of the letter.  For example, if you use the phrase  “retail experience” in the opening paragraph,  you are preparing your reader for the discussion  of your retail experience later in the letter.  Let’s see how this introductory paragraph  of a cover letter incorporates the four elements:  I am writing in response to your notice  in the online May New York Times.  I would like to be considered  for the position in system programming.  I hope you find that my studies  in computer science at Eastern University,  along with my programming experience  at Airborne Instruments, qualify me for the position.  In the first two sentences the writer identifies  the date of the ad, the name of the publication,  and the name of the position.  Then, he forecasts in the last sentence  the main points he will make in the body of the letter.  The body of the letter justifies your claim  that you can work for the company  by proving your credentials.  The second paragraph might focus on educational achievements  and the third paragraph might focus on work experience.  One thing I might want to point out is that for most students,  the education paragraph  should come before the employment paragraph  because the education paragraph will be stronger.  However, if your employment experience  is stronger, present it first.  In writing your education paragraph,  take your cue from the job ad (if you are responding to one).  Ask yourself what aspect of your education  most directly fits the job requirements.  Also, you might discuss course work  in a subject related to your major,  such as business or communication skills.  Extracurricular activities are often very valuable.  Perhaps the most popular strategy  for developing the education paragraph  is to discuss skills and knowledge gained  from advanced course work in your major field.  Here is an example of education paragraph.  To broaden my education at Southern University,  I took eight business courses in addition  to my requirements for a degree in civil engineering.  Because your ad mentions that the position  will require substantial client contact,  I believe that my work in marketing,  in particular, would be of special value.  In an advanced marketing seminar,  I used InDesign to produce a 20-page sales brochure  describing the various kinds of building structures  for sale by Oppenheimer Properties to industrial customers  in our section of the city.  That brochure is now being used at Oppenheimer,  where I am an intern.  This writer elaborates on a field other than his major.  Note how he develops an idea  based on a detail in the job ad.  This strategy shows that  he studied the ad carefully and wrote a custom letter.  This initiative makes him the sort of candidate  most hiring officials would like to interview.  Like the education paragraph,  the employment paragraph should develop a single idea  that you have a broad background or that one job  in particular has given you special skills  that make you especially well suited for the vacancy.  For instance, this writer suggests  in his employment paragraph  that he has technical and interpersonal skills  and that his company thought he did an excellent job  on a project he coordinated.  I have worked in merchandising for three years  as a part-time and summer salesperson  in men’s fashions and accessories.  I have had experience running inventory-control software  and helped one company switch  from a manual to an online system.  Most recently,  I assisted in clearing $in closeout men’s fashions:  I coordinated a campaign  to sell half of the merchandise at cost  and was able to convince the manufacturer’s representative  to accept the other half for full credit.  For this project, I received a certificate of appreciation  from the company president.  To sum up, the theme of education  and employment paragraphs is that  an effective paragraph has a sharp focus  and specific evidence  and that it clearly suggests the writer’s qualifications.  Finally, here comes the concluding paragraph.  The enclosed résumé provides an overview  of my education and experience.  Could I meet with you at your convenience  to discuss my qualifications for this position?  Please leave a message anytime at (215) 555-  or e-mail me at crodrig@dragon.du.edu.  It can be seen here that the last paragraph  in the cover letter contains three main elements:  Referring to the enclosed résumé.  Requesting an interview.  Telling how and when you can be reached  by including your phone and e-mail address.  Ok, before we conclude our lesson,  ask yourself the following questions  to check your understanding:  What does a job application cover letter consist of?  How can you compose a forceful opening?  How can you respond to your reader’s needs  in the education and employment paragraphs?  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.



5.1

﻿  Unit  Instructions  1. Designing and writing instructions  Instructions spell out the steps required  for completing a task or a series of tasks.  For example,  instructions help people set up bookstores,  use electronic equipment,  maintain computers, and so on.  Effective instructions enable people  to complete a job safely and effectively.  How can we write effective instructions?  You've probably encountered an instruction  that failed to define unfamiliar terminology,  didn't tell you what equipment you needed to perform the task,  or didn't warn you about the dangers.  Usually, such poorly written instructions occur  because writers fail to consider their audience's needs.  Successful instructions,  in contrast, start with audience recognition.  For example,  you are told to "size the cutting according to regular use",  but you have never regularly performed this activity before.  High-tech readers might be able to follow these instructions,  but many more readers will be confused.  The problem is caused by writers who assume  that their readers have the same background knowledge  about what they need to do.  So consider the level of knowledge of readers first.  If all your readers have good backgrounds in the topic,  you can use fairly specialized terms.  If that is not the case, use plain language  or include a glossary for specialized terms  that you cannot avoid.  As the writer,  you need to recognize accurately  who your readers are and give them what they want.  The key to success as a writer of instructions is:  Don't assume anything;  Spell it out clearly and thoroughly.  Besides analyzing your readers and purpose,  you need to know the language styles employed  for writing instructions.  First, clear and easy-to-follow instructions  are written as commands in the imperative mood,  active voice and whenever possible, present tense.  Please look at the following sentence:  Version  The access lid will be raised by the operator.  Version  Raise the access lid.  Obviously, the second version is clear,  direct and easy-to-follow.  Second, although conciseness  is important in instructions, clarity is essential.  You can make sentences shorter  by leaving out some articles, some pronouns, and some verbs.  But such sentences may result in a telegraphic style  and be harder for the reader to understand.  Look at the following two sentences:  The first sentence is somewhat confusing  without articles and the pronoun "you".  And the second sentence is much clear.  One good way to make instructions easy to follow  is to divide them into short,  simple steps in their proper sequence.  Steps can be organized with words,  such as first, next, finally, that indicate time or sequence.  The following is a good example.  It's easy for the readers to follow the steps.  You can also use numbers, just like this.  You can use the bullets and numbering feature  of your word processing software to create sequenced steps.  Plan ahead for your reader.  If the instructions in Step Two  will affect a process in Step Nine, say so in Step Two.  Sometimes, your instructions have to make clear  that two operations must be performed simultaneously.  In this case,  you should include both operations in one step.  For example, the first version shows two operations,  but in fact, they should be performed simultaneously.  So the second version is clear.  You need to design your instructions  based on your audience, purpose and subject.  You need to decide whether you should write  a one-page set of instructions  or a longer document that needs to be bound.  Or you might decide to write several versions of the information.  You also need to consider your resources,  especially your budget.  Long documents cost more than short ones;  color costs more than black and white.  Designing a set of instructions is much like designing  any other kind of technical document.  Surely, you want to create a document  that is attractive and easy to use.  So you need to consider a number of issues  related to document design and page design.  What are your readers' expectations?  For a simple, inexpensive product,  such as a light switch,  readers will expect to find instructions  written on the back of the  packaging  or printed in black and white  on a small sheet of paper folded inside.  For an expensive consumer product,  such as a car, readers will expect to find instructions  in a more sophisticated,  full-color document printed on high-quality paper.  Do you need to create more than one set of instructions  for different audiences?  If you are writing about a complex device,  such as a solar heating system,  you may decide to create one set of instructions  for professionals, who will install and maintain the device,  and one set for homeowners, who will operate the device.  You might even want to make a brief video  of the tasks you describe in the instructions.  What languages should you use?  You might decide to include instructions  in two or more languages.  Doing so will help you communicate better with more people.  Will readers be anxious  about the process they have to follow?  If readers will find the information intimidating,  make the design unintimidating.  For example, for some complicated instructions,  create open pages with a lot of white space and graphics.  Use large type and narrow text columns  so that each page contains a relatively  small amount of information.  Will the environment in which the instructions  are read affect the document design?  If people will be using the instructions outdoors,  you will need to use a coated paper  that can tolerate moisture or dirt.  If people will be reading the instructions in a small,  enclosed area, you might select a small paper size  and a binding that allows the readers  to fold the pages over to save space.  Look at these two instructions.  Obviously, the left one is cluttered,  containing far too much information.  In addition,  the page is not chunked effectively.  As a result, the readers' eyes don't know where to focus.  The right one is much more attractive,  containing an appropriate amount of information  presented in a simple two-column format.  Notice the effective use of white space  and the horizontal rules separating the steps.  Thank you for watching.



5.2

﻿  2. Outlining instructions  Instructions that are clear and  easy to follow prevent miscommunication  and help readers complete tasks effectively and safely.  To write effective instructions,  you must thoroughly understand the process,  system, or device you are describing.  And an important step of writing a good instruction is outlining.  Not every instruction will contain the same components.  Some very short instructions  will consist of nothing more than a few, numbered steps.  Other instructions,  however, will consist of more components,  such as those in this figure.  Title Page  Preface your instruction with a title page  that consists of the topic about which you are writing,  the purpose of the instruction,  and a graphic depicting your product or service.  For example, to merely title your instruction "iPod"  would be uninformative.  It names the product,  but it does not explain why the instruction is being written.  Will the text discuss operating instructions,  troubleshooting, service or maintenance?  A better title would be "Operating Instructions for the iPod".  Adding a graphical representation lets your audience see  what the finished product will look like  and helps you market your product or service.  Safety Requirements  You can place safety requirements anywhere throughout your text.  If a particular step presents a danger to the reader,  call attention to this hazard  just before asking the reader to perform the step.  Similarly, to help your audience complete an action,  place a note before the step,  suggesting the importance of using the correct tool,  or wearing protective equipment.  Table of Contents  Usually, your instruction may have several sections.  In addition to the steps, the instructional manual  could include technical specifications, warranties,  guarantees, FAQs, troubleshooting tips  and customer service contact numbers.  An effective table of contents will allow  your readers to go to any of these sections individually  on an as-needed basis.  Introduction  A user manual also provides an opportunity  for a company to make contact and connect with its customers.  Therefore, instructions often are reader-friendly  and seek to achieve audience recognition  and audience involvement.  The manuals try to reach customers in a personalized way.  Here is an example of an instruction from a user manual.  This introduction uses pronouns, you and your,  to personalize the manual.  The introduction also uses positive words,  such as "thank you" and "pleasure",  to achieve positive customer contact.  An effective introduction promotes  good customer-company relationships.  Required Tools or Equipment  What tools or equipment  will the audience need to perform the procedures?  You don't want your audience to be in the middle  of performing a step and suddenly realize  that a missing piece of equipment is needed.  Provide this important information either  through a list or graphics depicting the tools  or equipment necessary to complete the tasks.  This is an example about "tools required".  Glossary  If you want to use the abbreviation CCW,  will the readers know that you are referring to "counterclockwise"?  If your audience is not familiar with your terminology,  they might miss important information  and perform an operation incorrectly.  So avoid this problem. Define your abbreviations,  acronyms, or technical terms.  You can define your terms early in the instruction,  throughout the manual,  or in a glossary located at the end of your manual.  Instructional steps  The instructional steps  are the most important part of your manual.  Here are some general guidelines  for drafting steps in instructions.  1. Number the instructions,  which can help your readers refer to the correct step.  2. Present the right amount of information in each step.  Each step should define a single task  the reader can carry out easily.  3. Use the imperative mood,  which expresses a request or a command.  The imperative is more direct and economical.  4. Do not omit articles.  Omitting articles can make the instructions  unclear and hard to read.  For example, "Locate midpoint and draw line."  The reader cannot tell if "draw line"  is a noun, as in "locate the draw line",  or a verb and its object, as in "draw a line".  Additional components  An instruction might include some additional components:  1.Technical description.  It could be a part-by-part explanation  or labeling of a product's or system's component.  2. Warranties, which can protect both  the customer and the manufacturer.  3. Disclaimers.  You can ensure that your company  is legally protected by clearly stating  what your company is not responsible for.  4. Frequently Asked Questions.  By including a FAQs page in the user manual,  common consumer concerns can be addressed immediately,  which will save your company time and money,  while improving customer relations.  5. Corporate Contact Information.  Conclude your manual by providing your company's address,  telephone number, fax number, email address,  social media links, or other ways your audience  could contact the company with questions or requests  for more information.  Graphics. Clarify your points graphically.  Use drawings, photographs,  screen captures that are big,  simple, clear and keyed to the text.  These graphics can not only make your instructions  more visually appealing,  but also help your readers understand correctly  and help you explain clearly.  The use of graphics depends on the audience.  With a high-tech reader,  the graphic might not be needed.  Thanks for watching.



5.3

﻿  3. Drafting step-by-step information  Organization, format and graphics may vary,  but all instructions require chronological steps.  The heart of a set of instructions  is the step-by-step information.  To successfully write your instructions,  follow these steps:  1. Organize the steps chronologically  as a step-by-step sequence.  Make sure that your instructions are chronologically accurate.  2. Number your steps.  Do not use bullet points or letters.  Numbers can help your readers refer to the correct step easily.  In contrast, if you use bullets or letters,  your readers could have some trouble counting and locating steps.  3. Limit the information and write  only one action for each step.  Don't overload your reader by writing lengthy steps.  Each step should define a single task the reader can  carry out easily.  Look at the following table.  The steps described in the left column are overloaded.  The sentence is too long,  and the readers will surely  have difficulty in following the steps to finish the task.  However, the steps in the right column are clearly separated,  which makes the steps clear and easy to follow.  4. Develop your points thoroughly.  Include precise,  specific details to show your reader exactly what to do.  Avoid vague content by clarifying directions,  equipment required, and cautions.  5. Use short words, short sentences,  and short paragraphs.  Short words, short sentences,  and short paragraphs can keep your reader  focused on one step at a time.  However, an overly complex  or compound-complex sentence can create confusion.  Look at these sentences.  The sentences in the left column are short  and each sentence describes only one step.  The sentence in the right column is really long,  and uses complicated sentence structures,  which may cause confusion for the readers.  6. Begin your steps  with an active-voice verb in the imperative mood.  The imperative mood expresses a request or a command,  and it is more direct and economical.  Note that each of the numbered steps  in the following example begins with a verb,  indicating very clearly the steps and tasks  the readers need to follow.  7. Make sure each step is truly a step.  Although a description may imply action,  it may not direct the reader to actually do something.  Therefore, be careful about the way you organize your ideas.  The emphasis is on the action,  what the readers need to do,  instead of a description.  For example, "Grasp the rope when it comes back to you"  is an imperative sentence,  with emphasis on the verbal phrase "grasp the rope",  which is an action.  While in the second sentence "The rope will come back to you",  the emphasis is on the movement of the rope,  which is a description.  8. Include graphics.  When appropriate, add a photograph or a drawing  to show the reader what to do.  Readers' literacy skills will vary.  Photographs and drawings are a good choice to avoid  any misunderstanding among readers.  The following is an excerpt from an instruction manual  about how to use the barcode scanner.  The writer presents the steps.  Note that the writer numbers the steps  and uses the imperative mood for each one.  Also, the drawing helps readers understand  how to hold the tablet and aim it at the barcode.  In cases such as this,  simple drawings work better than photographs  because they do not distract readers with unnecessary detail.  After you finish drafting the step-by-step instructions,  you must test the accuracy and clarity of the steps  before you submit your final copy.  Do this by asking someone who is not familiar  with the task to follow your directions.  Your testers can provide you with valuable feedback  by noting wording that is not clear,  steps that are out of sequence,  or steps that have been left out.  Then you need to revise your instructions accordingly.  Thanks for watching.



5.4

﻿  4. Planning for safety  If the subject you are writing about involves safety risks,  your most important responsibility  is to do everything you can to ensure your readers’ safety.  To a large extent, the best way to keep your readers safe  is to be honest and write clearly.  If readers will encounter safety risks,  explain what those risks are and how to minimize them.  Readers have a right to the best information  they can get about any risks they are taking.  It is also essential that readers  are provided with adequate safety information  from a legal point of view.  People who get hurt could sue the company  that made the product or provided the service  if the necessary safety information has not been provided.  When you write safety information,  be clear and concise.  Avoid complicated sentences.  Please read the following sentences.  The first sentence is a complex sentence  with a subjective mood.  The second and third sentences  are much more direct and easier to read.  Sometimes a phrase works better than a sentence:  "Safety Glasses Required."  Because a typical set of instructions  can contain dozens of comments--  some related to safety and others not--  experts have devised signal words to  indicate the seriousness of the advice.  But signal words are not used consistently,  and many companies have their own definitions.  The following figure presents  the four most commonly used signal words.  "Danger" is used to alert readers about an immediate  and serious hazard that will likely be fatal.  Writers often use all uppercase letters for danger statements.  "Warning" is used to alert readers  about the potential for serious injury or death  or serious damage to equipment.  Writers often use all uppercase letters for warning statements.  "Caution" is used to alert readers about the potential  for anything from moderate injury  to serious equipment damage or destruction.  "Note" is used for a tip or suggestion to help readers  carry out a procedure successfully.  Another problem when planning for safety  is determining the best location for safety information.  This question has no easy answer  because you cannot control  how your audience reads your document.  So just be conservative:  put safety information wherever you think the reader  is likely to see it,  and don't be afraid to repeat yourself.  A reasonable amount of repetition,  such as including the same safety comment  at the top of each page, is effective.  Alert your readers to any potentially hazardous  materials or actions before they reach the steps  for which the material or the action is needed.  Caution readers handling hazardous materials  or undertaking potentially hazardous action  about any requirements for special clothing,  tools, equipment, or other safety measures.  Highlight warnings, cautions and precautions  to make them stand out visually from the surrounding text.  Here are some tips for providing effective safety information.  Access—make the hazard notations obvious.  To do so, vary your typeface and type size,  use white space to separate the warning or caution  from the surrounding text, box the warning or caution,  and call attention to the hazards through graphics.  Colors—a colored window or text box around the word  can emphasize your hazard message.  Usually, Note is printed in blue or black,  Caution in yellow, Warning in orange, and Danger in red.  Text—provide the readers  with text to accompany your hazard alert,  which can further clarify your terminology.  Your text should contain parts:  1. A one- or two-word identification alerting the reader.  Words such as "High voltage", "Hot equipment",  or "Sharp objects",  will warn your readers of potential dangers  and draw their attention to warnings or cautions.  2. The consequences of the hazards, in three to five words.  Phrases like "Can cause burns",  "Cuts can occur" will tell your readers the results  stemming from the dangers, warnings or cautions.  3. Avoidance steps.  In three to five words,  tell the readers how to avoid the consequence noted:  "Wear rubber shoes",  "Don't touch until cool",  or "Wear protective gloves".  Icons—equipment is manufactured and sold globally;  people speak different languages.  Your hazard alert should contain an icon  to help everyone understand the caution, warning or danger.  This figure shows an effective page layout  and the necessary information to communicate hazard alerts.  This is the hazard alerting word.  The hazard alert color is orange.  This is the alert symbol.  The two-word identification “HOT EQUIPMENT” alerts the readers.  “Burns can occur” tells the readers  the consequences of the potential danger.  “WEAR PROTECTIVE GLOVES” tells the readers  how to avoid the consequences.  The hazard icon here helps the readers understand the warning noted.  Thanks for watching.



6.1

  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about proposals,  one of the technical writing genres.  We will focus on different types of proposals.  To begin with, what is a proposal?  Think of a time when you had a successful experience persuading  a person or a group to follow your suggestion.  If you wrote a narrative about this experience,  this narrative would be a proposal.  So a proposal is a persuasive document  that offers a solution to an identified problem or need.  The word proposal comes from the base word propose.  If you are thinking of the meaning  “to suggest” or “to make an offer,”  you are beginning to understand the purpose of a proposal.  Now that we know what a proposal is,  what are the different types of proposals?  Proposals can be categorized  in several ways relating to the audience:  solicited or unsolicited;  formal or informal;  internal or external;  or sales, research, grant, or planning.  Solicited or unsolicited proposals  Proposals may be either solicited or unsolicited.  Solicited proposals are those  that have been requested by the audience.  Unsolicited proposals are those that have not been requested.  Let’s look at the following two situations:  A manager at work sees a problem and asks  an individual or a team to investigate possible solutions  to the problem and present recommendations in a proposal.  A new travel agency in town sends out proposals  to local schools to offer spring trips.  Can you see the differences between them?  The proposal in the first situation is the solicited one,  as the readers asked the writers to prepare it.  Then the proposal in the second situation is unsolicited  because it has not been requested.  Formal or informal proposals  Proposals may also be formal or informal.  Formal proposals take on the same format as formal reports,  including front matter, the proposal text,  and end matter, if applicable.  Informal proposals can take the form of an email or memo  if distributed within an organization,  or a letter when sent outside of an organization.  Internal or External  Readers of some proposals will be internal  —that is, inside the writer’s organization.  Other readers will be external,  or outside the writer’s organization.  Sales, Research, Grant, or Planning Proposals  Based on function,  or what the writer wants the audience to agree to do,  proposals fall into one of four categories.  The sales proposal tries to sell a product or service.  The research proposal asks  for approval to begin a study or an investigation.  The grant proposal seeks money from a government agency,  foundation, or other funding source for a specified project.  The planning proposal attempts  to persuade an audience to take a particular action.  A single proposal may combine several  of the categories mentioned here.  As you read proposals,  you may discover that all four categories apply to one document.  Let’s pause for a few seconds to read the following proposal.  This proposal states the document’s purpose,  summarizes the background and problem,  outlines the client’s needs,  proposes a solution and sets limitations.  In general, it is a planning proposal  as it proposes to take action to install an elevator  to make the building fully accessible.  It is solicited as we can see from the background section  that this proposal has been requested by Chris and the team  to install an elevator  to make the building fully accessible.  And the proposal is an informal one,  for it is presented as a letter.  We can see the letter header, “Dear Chris and team”.  So we can see that a single proposal  may be categorized several ways.  In this section, we have talked about  what a proposal is and analyzed different types of proposals.  Have you got it? That’s all.  Thank you!



6.2

  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the outline of a proposal.  Proposals often follow an introduction/body/conclusion structure.  Depending on the proposal’s complexity,  each section contains some or all of the components listed below.  Let’s look at this detailed outline.  The Introduction may include components  such as Statement of Problem, Objective,  Background and Literature Review, Need, Benefits,  Qualifications of Personnel, Data Sources,  Limitations and Contingencies, and Scope.  In the Body, it may include Objectives and Methods,  Timetable, Materials and Equipment, Personnel,  Available Facilities, Needed Facilities,  Cost and Budget, Expected Results and Feasibility.  The Conclusion may  include Summary of Key Points and Request for Action.  These components can be rearranged,  combined, divided, and deleted as required.  Not every proposal will contain all components.  However, each major section  must persuasively address specific information needs.  Let’s look at each section in detail.  Introduction  From the beginning,  your goal is to explicitly sell your idea, that is,  to demonstrate the need for the project,  your qualifications for tackling the project,  and your clear understanding of what needs  to be done and how to proceed.  A wordy or vague introduction  will make readers quickly lose interest.  The following is the introduction for a planning proposal titled  “Proposal for Solving the Noise Problem  in the University Library.”  The author addresses her proposal  to the chief librarian and the administrative staff.  Because this proposal is unsolicited,  it must first highlight the seriousness of problem  through providing details that arouse concern and interest.  This introduction is longer  than it would be in a solicited proposal.  The first two sections state concise descriptions of the problem  and the objective to immediately alert the readers.  The problem is the “noise in the library”.  Even if the areas were designated for quiet study,  complains about the noise continue.  The proposal is intended to examine  “the noise problem from the viewpoint of students,  faculty, and library staff”  and then offer “a plan to make areas  of the library quiet enough for serious study and research”.  Sources comes early  because it is referred to in the next sections.  Details of the Problem helps readers understand the problem.  Severity shows how the campus feels about the problem  and how this concern is widespread and pervasive.  In Causes, specific readers are identified.  The statement of Needs evolved logically  and persuasively from earlier evidence.  Finally, Scope previews the plan.  Body  The body or plan section of your proposal  will receive the most audience attention.  The main goal of this section is to prove your plan will work.  Here you spell out your plan in enough detail  for the audience to evaluate its soundness.  Let’s look at the body part of the above proposal.  In this proposed plan,  Phases of the Plan tells how the plan will be implemented.  The three phases are improving publicity,  shutting down and modifying facilities,  and enforcing the quiet rules.  These phases have been described in detail.  Then the plan estimates Costs and Materials needed,  describes Personnel needed,  assesses the probability of success, namely Feasibility,  and offers a realistic and persuasive forecast of Benefits.  Conclusion  The conclusion reaffirms the need  for the project and induces the audience to act.  A proposal conclusion  should be assertive, confident, encouraging, and short.  Here is the conclusion of the above proposal.  In long, formal proposals, especially those beginning  with a comprehensive abstract, the conclusion can be omitted.  In this section, we have talked about the outline of proposals.  You can refer to the appendix for the complete version  of the sample proposal we have mentioned here.  That’s all.  Thank you!



6.3

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about the elements of a persuasive proposal.  The reader of a proposal expects it  to be clear, informative, and realistic.  They will evaluate your proposal on the basis  of the following ten elements.  An informative title or subject line  How can you write an informative title or subject?  Let’s look at this example.  “Proposed office procedures for Vista Freight”  This title is vague with no indication  of what office procedures are being proposed.  A more specific title would be:  “A proposal for automating Vista Freight’s billing system”  It is clear that an automating billing system is being proposed here.  Background information  A background section can be brief or long,  but it can help to achieve a persuasive proposal.  The following example  just briefly lists two services that Vista provides.  Statement of the problem  The example below clearly describes the problem  and its effects, thus calling for a solution.  Here, the problem is that record keeping,  accounting and other paperwork are still done manually.  It has caused late billings, lost commissions,  and poor account maintenance.  Then updated office procedures are proposed.  Description of the solution  After stating the problem, you should propose a solution.  The proposal audience wants specific suggestions  for meeting their specific needs.  Their biggest question is:  “What will this plan do for me?”  In the following proposal  for automating office procedures at Vista company,  the author begins with a clear assessment of needs,  and then moves quickly into a proposed plan of action.  We can see a string of action words:  identify, show, reduce, eliminate, improve and automate.  A clear focus on benefits  Then you may list benefits related directly to your readers’ needs.  The following list shows the exact tasks Vista employees  will be able to accomplish once the proposed plan  is implemented.  And these tasks are actually  the benefits relating directly to the client’s needs.  Honest and supportable claims  Claims that are made in proposals typically  involve expenditures of large sums of money  as well as contractual obligations.  Persuasive proposals require solid ethical and legal claims.  False or exaggerated promises  not only damage reputations, but also invite lawsuits.  For example, if you are proposing  to install customized virus-protection software,  be clear about what this software cannot accomplish  under certain circumstances.  Here is how the Vista proposal qualifies its promises.  We can see the author uses “diminish”  and “help avoid” instead of “eliminate”  to qualify the available solutions  so that he will not promise more than what the plan can achieve.  Appropriate detail  Vagueness in a proposal is fatal.  To create a proposal that is persuasive, spell everything out.  In the following sample,  the specific products are clearly presented,  like “iMac desktop computers,  each with TB hard drives” and so on.  Readability and visuals  A persuasive proposal must first be a readable one.  A readable proposal is straightforward,  easy to follow, and understandable.  And your proposal should move people to action.  Keep your tone confident and encouraging,  not bossy and critical.  Supplements tailored for a diverse audience  A persuasive proposal often addresses a diverse audience.  Various reviewers are interested in different parts  of your proposal.  If the primary audience is expert or informed,  keep the proposal text itself technical.  For uninformed secondary reviewers,  provide an informative appendix explaining specialized information.  Proper citation of sources and contributors  Persuasive proposals rarely emerge from thin air.  Proper citation is not only an ethical requirement,  but also an indicator of your proposal’s feasibility  and persuasiveness.  In this section we have talked about  the ten elements of a persuasive proposal.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section.  Thank you!



6.4

  Hello, everyone!  In this section, we will talk about  how we should analyze a Request for Proposal (RFP).  An RFP outlines the proposal requirements.  Analyzing this is the first stage of the process  for creating a proposal.  Here is a sample RFP  from an instructor of Technical Writing course.  Let’s pause for a few seconds to read it.  The first thing to determine is what kind of proposal  is being requested in the RFP.  Since the writer of the RFP is asking for proposals,  your ideas are being “solicited.”  This means that you do not have to work  to persuade your reader to read the proposal.  After we know what kind of proposal is requested,  we need to see what the primary criteria listed in the RFP are.  The criteria are listed in the order of importance  in this request.  First, “Create an instructional manual  that does not currently exist.”  So we can’t merely revise an existing manual to improve it.  We need to document some kind of system or process  that is not currently documented.  The next part of the sentence explains further  how the instructor is defining “does not currently exist”:  “identify a process or procedure  that has not been documented for a particular audience.”  This qualifies the first criteria in that the topic  does not have to be completely brand new,  so you could use a process that has been documented  but create an original set of instructions  tailored to a new and specific audience.  The second set of criteria to evaluate the proposal  is presented in the first set of bullet points explaining  what your proposal needs to do.  From this set of criteria,  we can identify information  that must be contained in the proposal:  background information,  why your audience needs the manual that you propose,  and how you will research and illustrate the steps  that you include in the manual.  Next, the RFP describes the range of topics to choose from,  listing the kinds of things  that students have done in the past.  Embedded in this list of suggestions  is also information about suitable topics,  appropriate audiences,  and the proper length for the project.  This range of topics is intended to provide insight  and inspiration as you contemplate topics  for your own project.  The third set of criteria  are listed in the second list of bullet points.  In this particular content outline, the instructor  is requesting not only the problem statement  but also a section that explains your expected purpose  in producing the type of manual that you propose.  The third heading, “Topics to Investigate,” indicates  that you are supposed to list the parts of the topic  about which your knowledge is incomplete.  The fourth heading, “Audience,” suggests that you  should also do some analysis of your target audience,  The section on “Methods and Procedures” asks you  to think about the various main stages  for completing the plan.  “Qualifications and Resources” asks you  to explain any special resources you have  that make you a better candidate than someone else  to produce the manual that you propose.  The seventh heading, “Work Schedule,”  indicates that you need to work out a clear  and detailed plan of the steps  that you can anticipate to complete the project.  The heading “Budget” contains a qualifier,  “if appropriate,” suggesting that you may not need to  include this section in your proposal if you find  that the cost of producing this manual will be quite low.  The final section of the proposal,  the “Call to Action,” includes a brief summary  of the main point of the proposal,  along with a clear statement of what the writer expects  the reader to do next and a positive,  forward-looking statement that expresses interest  and enthusiasm in the project.  Once you thoroughly understand the requirements  of the RFP after analysis,  you can begin to plan your own project ideas.  You need to build a persuasive argument for your ideas  and your qualifications, an argument  that will result in reader action, that is,  in your proposal being approved.  In this section we have discussed the analysis of an RFP.  That’s all.  Thank you!



7.1

﻿  Eugenia has been working in the company  for only two months after her graduation.  One day her boss asked her  to write a report to update him on the progress  of a project her group is working on.  Eugenia is excited because it is a good opportunity  to display her writing skills for the first time,  but she is also worried about how to write it.  When she thinks of reports,  she pictures formal documents  that contain many pages of research,  information, charts and graphs,  footnotes, and other details.  Actually Eugenia 's boss has asked for an informal report.  To help Eugenia figure out which type she's writing,  we’ll examine different types of informal technical reports,  including informational and analytical reports,  and the purpose and types of each.  Professionals in business and industry sometimes  use specialized reports to convey information  about their work.  Among these informational reports,  progress reports answer how much progress  has been made on a project;  activity reports answer what activity transpired  during a given period;  trip reports deal with what activities took place  during a business trip,  and meeting minutes report  what discussions occurred in a meeting.  Other reports, known as analytical reports,  offer information as well as evaluate  and interpret information accurately,  draw valid conclusions,  and make persuasive recommendations.  Therefore, you evaluate whether a project  or situation is feasible in feasibility reports  and make recommendations on  how to proceed in recommendation reports.  Now Eugenia has understood the differences  between informational and analytical reports,  but is still unaware of what kind of report she is writing.  Next, let’s take Eugenia through the different reports.  A progress report informs a supervisor,  or client about the status of a project  over a specific period of time.  In the case of internal audience,  managers use progress reports to evaluate projects,  monitor employees, decide how to allocate funds,  and keep track of delays or expense overages.  In the case of external audience,  progress reports explain to client how time and money  are being spent and how difficulties  have been overcome to assure the client  that the project will be completed  on schedule and within the budget.  Periodic activity reports are similar  to progress reports in that both summarize activities  over a specified period.  But unlike progress reports,  which summarize specific accomplishments  on a particular project,  periodic activity reports summarize general activities  of a work group or of an entire organization  over a specified period of time.  Let’s look at this periodic report prepared  by an employee who answers her boss’s question:  What did you accomplish last month?  First, the subject line announces the topic.  This part gives an overview of recent activities,  and their purpose.  Then she gives details of what she has done:  the meeting she hosted and the meeting she attended.  The report ends up with the explanation  of the benefits of these activities.  A trip report is normally written  as a memo or an e-mail, as shown in this report,  as a permanent record of a business trip  and its accomplishments.  The subject line identifies the destination  and dates of the trip.  The body of the report explains  why you made the trip, whom you visited,  and what you accomplished.  The report should devote a brief section to each major  activity and may include a heading for each section.  Follow the body of the report  with the appropriate conclusions and recommendations.  Here is meeting minutes.  Meeting minutes remind attendees of important highlights,  action items and key decisions made during a meeting.  The formats vary from company to company,  but most include a few basic items:  Pre-Meeting items include the purpose of the meeting,  what it was about, where and when it was held.  It is important to include a list of the attendees.  In-Meeting items usually include three main things:  What was achieved during the meeting.  Decisions that were made at the meeting.  Any actions that were agreed.  Finally, if a follow-up meeting was agreed on,  this should be mentioned.  When organizations consider a new project,  they first need to determine the project’s chances for success.  A feasibility report answers such questions as the following:  What is the problem or situation,  and how should we deal with it?  Is this course of action likely to succeed?  Do the benefits outweigh the drawbacks or risks?  What are the pros and cons?  What are the costs?  Based on the findings of analysis,  the report offers logical conclusions and recommends  whether the project should be carried out.  In this report, for instance,  a securities analyst reports to the manager  on the feasibility of investing in  a rapidly growing computer manufacturer.  The subject line clearly indicates the purpose of the report.  Then the writer gives background information,  makes a direct recommendation,  explains the criteria supporting the recommendation  and finally encourages reader action.  Another type of analytical report is recommendation reports.  Like feasibility reports,  they may include supporting data,  but they also state “Here’s what we should do and why”  rather than “Should we do it?”  This sample recommendation report is written  by a health and safety officer at an airline company  to a vice president.  The subject line states the exact purpose.  The writer first provides immediate orientation  by giving brief background and main point.  Then he states the problem  before he makes general recommendations.  Most important of all,  he expands on each recommendation in the following part.  Based upon the explanation,  Eugenia comes to understand  that she’s writing an informational report,  for her boss really wants information on the progress  of her group while working on the current project.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.



7.2

﻿  Jarvis works for an aircraft corporation.  His boss has asked Jarvis to prepare a formal report  on the ethics cases handled by the ethics officers  of the corporation in the past year.  Jarvis knows a formal report requires detailed information,  substantial research,  and data necessary to make business decisions.  So his report will provide information and analyze  this information about the ethics cases,  such as the nature and disposition.  Finally, his analysis will lead him to make conclusions  and recommendations for planning  for the second year of the Ethics Program.  As a formal report has a fairly standard format  —front matter, text, and back matter  — each of which contains a number of elements,  Jarvis will submit his completed document  with the following list, in this order:  Front matter, including:  letter of transmittal  title page  table of contents  list of tables and figures  abstract  Text of the report with introduction, body, conclusion.  Back matter including  glossary (as needed)  appendices (as needed)  works cited  Now let’s first take a look at the front matter.  The front matter refers to all the material  and information preceding the text of the report.  Jarvis will first provide a letter of transmittal,  addressed to a specific reader or readers,  informing the recipient that his report  has been included in the packet.  It may also state the purpose of the report,  briefly summarize the content,  and offer contact information if the reader or readers  have any questions about his report  or if they need any further information.  The title page provides the report title,  the names of all authors and their affiliations,  and the date the report was submitted.  An abstract, which normally follows the title page,  provides an easy-to-read summary of the key points  of the report in a non-technical manner.  Instead of reading an entire formal report,  readers interested only in the big picture  may consult the abstract that commonly precedes the report.  The table of contents lists the page number  for each major section, including any front matter  that falls after the table of contents.  Do not include the letter of transmittal, title page,  or the table of contents itself,  but do include the list of tables  and figures, along with the abstract.  Front-matter pages are numbered  with lowercase Roman numerals (i, ii, iii).  The title page should not be numbered, as in this example,  but it is considered page i.  The back of the title page, still unnumbered, is ii.  The abstract begins on iii.  The back of the abstract is iv, but it is unnumbered.  The table of contents begins on v.  Number the report text pages using Arabic numerals (  3),  starting with the first page of the report.  A list of illustrations such as tables, charts, graphs  and other visuals can be seen on a separate page  following the table of contents  or at the end of the table of contents, if it fits.  Number illustrations consecutively with Arabic numbers.  As you can see, the front matter of a formal report acts  as a sort of overview for the rest of the report.  It’s important to note that nearly all the front matter  will be prepared after the actual report is written,  even though it is the first part of a formal report.  Following the front matter is the text, the core of the report.  The text of Jarvis' report is organized into several sections.  He’ll prepare an executive summary,  introduction, analysis of findings,  as well as conclusions and recommendations.  Executive summary provides a more complete  overview of the report than an abstract does.  Here Jarvis will state the purpose,  provide background information, describe the scope,  summarize the conclusions and make recommendations.  The introduction gives readers any general information,  such as the report’s purpose, scope, and context.  Jarvis’ introduction, for example,  will explain that his report was written  to provide the Ethics and Business Conduct Committee  with the information necessary for assessing the effectiveness  of the first year’s Ethics Program.  He’ll also provide a brief background sketch of ethics cases  An analysis of findings  is probably the longest section of the text.  It reveals what facts you discovered,  how a problem was solved,  what alternatives were explored,  and how the best choice among them was selected.  This information is enhanced by the use  of visuals, tables, headings, and references  that both clarify the text and persuade the reader.  Jarvis is drafting a discussion  that analyzes major and minor ethics cases in his company.  Then the text ends up with a conclusion section  in an informational report or a conclusions  and recommendations section in an analytical report.  Following the report text is the back matter,  which may include supplementary material  such as a glossary, appendices, and/or bibliography.  Use a glossary if your report contains  more than five technical terms.  If you have large blocks of material  that are relevant but will bog readers down,  place these in an appendix.  If you have used outside sources in your report,  you must provide a list of references or works cited.  To summarize, in this lesson you have learned about  the three major components of a formal report,  the front matter, the text, and the back matter.  Thanks for watching.



7.3

﻿  Eugenia is working at a big project  with a team of her colleagues.  And now, she is writing a progress report to inform the boss  about the progress made on the project.  She doesn't know exactly what to put in the report.  In this lesson you’re going to find out  how to format a progress report, along with Eugenia.  So, what is a progress report?  As is suggested in its name,  a progress report is a document that reports progress  for a period of time, describing what has been done  and what is left to do on only one project.  Namely, it covers in detail all achievements  as well as plans for the upcoming reporting period  toward completing one project.  Progress reports help projects run smoothly  by helping managers assign work, adjust schedules,  allocate budgets, and order supplies and equipment,  like Eugenia updating her boss on the project at work.  But Eugenia is not quite sure  how a progress report should look like.  To help her, let’s look at the common formats  and the structures of a progress report.  A progress report comes in different forms,  but customarily people use three primary forms  for their progress reports.  Depending on the size of the report,  the length and importance of the project,  and the recipient,  the progress report can take the following forms:  Memo--A short,  informal report to someone within your organization.  Letter or email--A short, informal report  shared either within or outside of your organization.  Formal report--A long, formal document  sent to someone outside your organization,  most often bound in a folder.  Eugenia is writing a progress report  to her boss instead of the client,  so she doesn’t have to share the progress in a very formal way.  She might also want to share copies  with all the other project members.  Therefore, she could present it as a memo or a letter or email.  Now Eugenia has decided on the format for her progress report,  but she still feels confused about  what she should include in the report.  Next let’s look at what organizational pattern  Eugenia can adopt for her progress report.  The reader of a progress report wants to see  what you’ve accomplished on the project,  what you are working on now,  what you plan to work on next,  and how the project is going in general.  To report this information,  Eugenia could combine  any two of these organizational strategies:  time periods, project tasks, or report topics.  First, time periods.  A progress report usually summarizes  work within each of the following time periods:  Work accomplished in the preceding period(s)  Work currently being performed  Work planned for the next period(s)  Second, project tasks.  Practically every project breaks down into individual tasks.  Third, report topics.  You would need information on different topics of a project.  A progress report is a combination  of two of the above organizational strategies.  The following organizational patterns  give you an idea of how they combine.  As you can see here, Pattern A,  organized by time-periods and project-tasks,  is the time-periods approach with subheadings for project tasks.  Pattern B is the project-tasks approach  with subheadings for time periods,  and Pattern C is the time-periods approach  with subheadings for report topics.  Well, say, Eugenia might want to choose Pattern B  to structure her progress report.  Now she’s happy she has learned  how to organize the main part of her progress report.  But to make a complete report  she also needs an introduction and a conclusion.  In the introduction,  she needs to review the history of the project's beginnings  as well as the purpose and scope of the work.  This will aid recipients who are unfamiliar with the project,  who do not remember certain details,  or who want to double check the approach to the project.  The final paragraph or section  is an overall appraisal of the project to date,  which usually acts as the conclusion to reassure recipients  that all is going well and on schedule.  Well, we have learned about the different formats  and structure of a progress report.  I believe Eugenia has got a clear idea  of how to write a progress report.  What about you?  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



7.4

﻿  Hello, everyone!  In this lesson we’ll examine recommendation report,  looking at what it is,  what it includes and how it is organized.  A recommendation report is a problem-and-solution report,  a written answer to a problem or a need  that arises in the workplace.  Employees write recommendation reports  to help decision makers choose the best solution.  Grayson's company has decided to expand.  Grayson was asked to write a report for his company  to recommend a town for the construction of a new plant.  After several meetings, Grayson and his team members  have narrowed the location of its new plant to two sites.  Now let’s follow Grayson as he writes his recommendation report.  Grayson have several formatting choices for his report:  a formal multipage document or an informal memo;  a traditional print document or an email attachment.  Whatever the format,  a recommendation report consists of an introduction,  recommendation, scope,  options,  discussion,  and conclusion.  To help Grayson make sure he includes all of them,  let’s go through each of them one by one.  In the introductory section,  Grayson needs to state the purpose of the report,  briefly explain the problem or situation,  narrow the choice to two or three items,  give a criteria list, and preview the rest of the report.  For example, Grayson will want  to provide a brief overview of the situation,  including the history of the company,  why they want to expand the company, and ect.  He will also want to summarize the purpose of the report  as to help his company decide on a best location.  And he will indicate that after consulting with administration,  workers who will relocate and local furniture manufacturer  he has devised the following criteria:  resources, utilities, and living conditions.  One thing Grayson has to note is that  in some cases recommendation section appears  in the end with the conclusion.  But sometimes it appears early in the report,  immediately following introduction,  especially when the report is solicited.  Grayson's report is definitely solicited  and his boss asked him to analyze several alternatives.  His boss wants the important information first.  So Grayson wants to put this recommendation early instead  of making recommendation at the end of his report.  Here he uses criteria to summarize reasons  for the recommendation.  The next section Grayson should include is scope.  He needs to list criteria given in the introduction,  in descending order from most important to least important,  explains why each criterion was chosen  and why they are ranked as they are.  For example, Grayson thinks a fair price for the land  and the labor cost should be given top priority  in considering the location choice,  so he puts resources in the first place.  After that, Grayson will need to explain  how he narrowed the field of choices down to the ones  his report focuses on in the discussion of the options.  Often, this section follows right after the discussion of the scope.  Additionally, Grayson may need to provide brief descriptions  of the two options themselves so that readers  will know something about them.  For example, Grayson can say about the location,  population, transportation,  and so on and so forth of the two towns.  Then Grayson analyzes each of the criteria thoroughly  and draws individual conclusions about which town  is better for each criterion in the thirs part, discussion section.  Under the major heading of each criterion,  Grayson explains the essential elements or features  by comparing each option being considered.  Finally, an individual conclusion shows  the results of the comparison for the criterion.  Discussion section is considered the most important  part of the report where the writer clarifies  and explains the significance of the results  so that readers can understand and evaluate his assessment.  Most recommendation reports follow an organizational plan  called point by point in this section.  Point-by-point organization zigzags  from one item to the next, comparing  or contrasting some aspect of one item  to the same aspect of another item.  For example, under the utilities heading in Grayson's report,  Grayson compares the two towns in terms of the water and power.  The two sites are collected under one point,  or criterion—in this case, utilities.  This chart shows the zigzag from one item to another.  The final section of the body of the report presents  conclusions and recommendation.  This is in part a summary of the individual conclusions  you have already reached in the comparison sections.  In this section, Grayson restates the individual conclusions,  for example, which town has better resources,  which has better utilities, and so on.  By now, Grayson has outlined which town is better in each section,  as well as summed up the individual conclusions.  His recommendation is pretty clear  and he wants to present the final conclusion  by explicitly saying which town he recommends choosing.  All right.  Now Grayson has understood his recommendation report  will follow this structure:  Introduction  Recommendation  Scope/ Requirements  Options  Discussion (comparison )  Conclusion  Have you got it?  Thank you!



8.1

﻿  Xiao Wang is the production manager  at the Southeast Asian branch of a Chinese tech company.  He just received an e-mail from Alice Enklend,  the purchasing director,  asking him how many copies of a user’s guide a corporate customer  had commissioned the firm to provide.  Xiao Wang probably had the answer at his fingertips  or was able to find it  after a quick look at his intranet invoicing program.  In this case, Xiao Wang’s research—or tracking down  of information on the topic—would be minimal.  Well, let’s suppose, instead,  that Xiao Wang were asked to write a market-research report  for the director of the local branch about moving  the company’s working and archived files off-site  to a cloud computing account.  The report would need to provide information on:  Would doing so save money?  Compromise security and confidentiality?  Free computer technology staff for other tasks?  Provide emergency backup?  How would Xiao Wang go about obtaining the necessary information?  For this task, he would have to do some extensive work,  which could involve primary research—conducting interviews  or even collecting questionnaire responses on the topic—  or secondary research—  gathering published information from the internet,  attending a webinar, reviewing blogs, and the like.  Let’s start with primary research.  Primary research is the gathering of raw data  from such sources as firsthand experience,  interviews with experts or potential users,  direct observations of activities,  and questionnaires to specific populations.  You can always begin with your experience.  If the project you are working on deals with a topic  that is familiar to you,  you may already know enough to get started.  You can also check your files for any materials you  have acquired on the subject,  and more importantly,  how much you need to find out.  You may also interview an expert on the subject to learn  from the knowledge and experience of others.  After making an appointment for the interview,  prepare a list of questions for the interviewee  and send it before the meeting.  Interview questions can be of any type,  but try to avoid vague, general ones  such as “Does the internet help your business?”  Instead, ask specific but open-ended questions  such as “Has your company’s WeChat account improved  communications with Chinese customers?”  or “Do your website’s usage statistics help focus  your organization’s marketing strategies?”  Such questions prompt interviewees to provide specific information  that will give you in-depth insight into the subject.  Arrive for your interview a little earlier  than the appointment time and be prepared  to guide the discussion.  Once you’ve introduced yourself,  take a few minutes to chat informally—this will help both you  and your interviewee to relax.  Your interview is not finished  when you say good-bye to your interviewee.  You need to expand your notes immediately.  Use your memory-jogging comments to help you  mentally go over the interview and record your detailed notes.  If you have an audio or video recording,  transcribe the interview and add your  remarks to complement the material.  Last but not least, don’t forget to send a thank-you email  to your interviewee a day or two after the interview.  Let’s move on to other useful research methods.  Observation and questionnaires  are also good resources of information.  Visiting a location and conducting firsthand observations  may provide valuable information  about how a process or procedure works.  If you plan research that involves observation,  choose your sites and times carefully,  and be sure to obtain permission in advance.  During your observations,  remain as unobtrusive as possible and keep accurate,  complete records that indicate date, time of day,  duration of the observation, and so on.  Do not try to make an assumption or interpretation  while you are still on site.  Save the interpretation of your observations for future analysis.  While observation can generate in-depth analysis,  its scope is limited as one researcher cannot  reach out to everyone who may be able to  contribute information to the subject.  Thus, to expand the number of people you gather information  from beyond those you’ve interviewed,  you may consider using a questionnaire.  A questionnaire is a series of questions on a particular topic,  sent to a number of people  who you believe will best provide the information  or insights you are looking for.  Create questions that are easy to understand.  Participants should be able to answer most questions  with a “yes” or “no”, or by checking  a choice among several options.  Such questions are easy to tabulate  and require minimum effort to complete,  thus increasing your chances of gathering more responses.  Try to use neutral language to avoid biased questions  that might lead to skewed answers.  For example  A biased questions is:  Would you prefer the freedom of a four-day workweek?  and a neutral question would be:  Would you choose to work a four-day workweek,  ten hours a day, with every Friday off?  Okay. This is all for this section.  Thanks for watching.



8.2

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  In addition to the primary research methods  we have discussed in part  Xiao Wang may also use secondary data to support his work as well.  Secondary research involves gathering information  that has been previously analyzed, assessed, evaluated, compiled,  or otherwise organized into an accessible form.  Secondary resources include books, articles, reports,  web documents, online discussion forums,  audio and video recordings, business letters,  meeting minutes, operating manuals, brochures, and so forth.  When used to frame your ideas in context,  these resources provide your readers  with useful information that help them understand the context.  As in Xiao Wang’s case, he decides to conduct research  using a workplace source relevant to his needs,  his library, and the internet.  The workplace is an extremely valuable  source of secondary information.  You will find information in a company’s existing online  and printed technical and promotional works  —in white papers, manuals, blogs, and other web resources;  in technical specifications;  and in a variety of reports.  In large corporations, this content is usually  maintained in content-management systems (CMS).  These systems house collections of documents  and related items, mostly created by employees,  but from outside resources as well.  For example, product photographs,  competitor research reports and materials,  topical e-mails, past versions of reports and manuals, and so on.  This process of copying or converting  such content when it is suitable to the ongoing project,  is called repurposing.  Repurposing saves time because content  that often requires substantial effort to develop  need not be re-created for each new application.  Before you reuse any content,  be sure to assess the scope, audience,  and purpose of the new setting  and decide on the choices of content accordingly.  If necessary, adapt the existing content to the new context,  such as revising the tense, voice, tone, grammar,  point of view, technical terms, etc.  You may consult a content management specialist if needed.  Libraries provide organized paths into scholarship,  information, and the ever-expanding internet.  As a student or an affiliate of the school,  you will have access to resources not otherwise available to you,  such as subscription-only databases  of recently published journal articles.  Although you may be able to find listings or abstracts  of such articles on your personal computer,  you may only be able to access the full article text  through your school’s library,  which has already purchased a subscription to the database.  Here are some databases that you might find useful:  Of course, you have another option: open access resources.  In the spirit of overcoming knowledge-sharing barriers,  the open access movement has provided the public  with scholarly research literature  that has been previously owned and distributed by publishers,  such as Springer and Pearsons, just name a couple.  Methods for searching library catalogs vary.  Typically, you can search by author, title, subject, or keywords.  Be familiar with the way your library’s catalog works.  If you happen to be at the library,  you may ask a reference librarian  to give you a brief tour of the catalog;  otherwise, you may check for guidelines or FAQs.  Here are some basic steps to search a library catalog:  Consider multiple search terms.  If your initial search doesn’t lead to anything  about your specific topic,  try to broaden your search terms.  Skim subject headings.  If you find a listing for one book that looks useful,  the subject headings on the screen may lead  you to other relevant sources  Browse the shelves.  Librarians shelve related books together.  Combine searching the catalog with browsing the shelves.  Set search limits.  If your search turns up too many results,  narrow it by using the “limit search” or “advanced search”  option offered by many catalogs.  Using the “advanced search” page,  you can limit your search by language, data range, or media type.  Although the internet contains a wealth of information,  it has no single indexing mechanism,  that is, no single catalog that brings the information together  for browsing or easy access, unlike the service a library offers.  However, search engines can streamline your internet search.  A preferred strategy  is to study how your favorite search engine works.  Although search engines vary in what and how they search,  each one of them provides detailed instruction  on their help pages,  and you can use some of the recommended strategies  to look for the information you need.  The problem with search engines is that  they are usually linked to an extensive base of unsorted,  unorganized information,  thus sometimes leaving the users at a loss.  Subject directories  can give you more focused information sorting.  Here I list a couple of subject directories for your reference.  That’s all for this section.  Thanks for watching.



8.3

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  As you carry out research,  it is important to understand the distinction  between materials that require acknowledgement  --such as in-text citation, footnotes, or endnotes,  and in the work-cited list or bibliography  -- and those that do not.  When you quote directly from another source,  use only the information you need to support your point.  Here are a few long-standing techniques to help you do  so  and to credit your information sources.  Direct quotation  A direct quotation is a word-for-word  copy of the text of an original source.  Direct quotation can be of a word,  a phrase, a sentence, or occasionally, a paragraph.  Choose direct quotations carefully and use them sparingly.  Enclose direct quotation in quotation marks  and separate them from the rest of the sentence  by using a comma or colon.  Here are a few examples  to demonstrate the basic rules of direct quotations.  The initial capital letter of a quotation is retained  if the quoted material originally began with a capital letter.  When a quotation is divided,  the material that interrupts the quotation is set off,  before and after, by commas;  and quotation marks are used around each part of the quotation.  Indirect quotations  An indirect quotation is paraphrased version of an original text.  It is usually introduced by the word that  and is not set off from the rest of the sentence  by punctuation marks.  Here is an example of indirect quotation.  Deletion or omissions  Deletion or omissions from quoted material are indicated  by three ellipsis points (…) within a sentence  and a period plus three ellipsis points (….)  at the end of a sentence.  When a quoted passage begins  in the middle of a sentence rather than at the beginning,  ellipsis points are not necessary;  The fact that the first letter of the quoted material  is not capitalized tells the reader  that the quotation begins in midsentence.  Inserting material into quotations  When it is necessary to insert a clarifying comment  within quoted material, use brackets.  When quoted material contains an obvious error  or might be questioned in some other way,  the expression sic, which means “thus” in Latin,  in italic type and enclosed in bracket,  follows the questionable material to indicate  that the writer has quoted the material exactly  as it appeared in the original.  Block quote  Material that runs longer than at least words  in APA style or four lines in MLA style  is usually set off from the body of the text by being indented.  The quoted passage is spaced the same  as the surrounding text and is not enclosed in quotation marks,  as shown in the example, which uses APA style.  If you are not following a specific style manual,  you may block indent one-inch  from both the left and right margins  for reports and other documents.  Do not rely too heavily on the use of quotations  in the final version of your document.  Generally, avoid quoting anything  that is more than one paragraph.  Now let’s talk about paraphrasing.  Paraphrasing means more than just changing  or shuffling a few words;  it means restating or rewriting in your own words  the essential ideas of another writer  —sometimes in a clearer, more direct way.  Because the paraphrase does not quote the source word for word,  quotation marks are not needed.  However, paraphrased material should be credited  because the ideas are taken from another author or piece of work.  Here are some guidelines for paraphrasing.  Refer to the author early in the paraphrase,  to indicate the beginning of the borrowed content.  Retain key words from the original, to preserve its meaning.  Restructure and combine original sentences  for emphasis and fluency.  Delete needless word from the original, for conciseness.  Use your own words and phrase to clarify the author’s ideas.  Cite the exact source,  to mark the end of the borrowed passage and to give full credit.  Be sure to preserve the author’s original intent.  Let’s take a look at an example.  That’s all for this section.  Thank you for watching.



8.4

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  This is the last section of this course.  In this section we will talk about plagiarism.  Plagiarism is the use of someone else’s ideas  without acknowledgement  or the use of someone else’s exact words  without quotation marks and appropriate credit.  Plagiarism is the theft of someone else’s creative  and intellectual property,  and it is unacceptable in business, science,  journalism, academia, or any other field.  The rapid development of internet resources  has spawned a wide array of misconceptions about plagiarism.  Some people mistakenly assume that  because material posted on a website,  a social media feed, or a blog is free,  it can be paraphrased or copied without proper citation.  Despite the ease of copying and pasting digital information,  the fact remains:  Any time you borrow someone else’s words, ideas,  perspective, or images—regardless of the medium  used in the original source—  you will need to document the original source accurately.  Here are some basic principles regarding the plagiarism issue.  Principle No.Acknowledging your sources:  The gold standard for avoiding ethical and legal problems  is to carefully document your sources of information.  This standard applies both in the classroom and in the workplace,  regardless of whether your primary audience  is your instructor, your company management,  or the readers of a publication or website.  You don’t need to document common knowledge.  Common knowledge refers to information  that is widely known and readily available  in handbooks, manuals, atlases, and other references.  It may also refer to information within a specific field  that is generally known by those outside the field.  Principle No. Copyrights, patents, and trademarks.  Most published material—written or visual  — is copyrighted in workplace writing.  You must obtain prior approval to reproduce  or use all copyrighted information  and cite the source of that information in your final work.  However, small amounts of materials  from a copyrighted source may be used,  especially for educational purpose,  without permission or payment as long as you indicate  that it is someone else’s material  and you use it to serve an educational purpose.  Principle No. Documenting sources  By documenting your sources,  you identify where you obtained the facts, ideas, quotations,  and paraphrase you used in preparing your content.  Major documentation styles include:  APA, which stands for Publication Manual  of the American Psychological Association.  It is commonly used for citing sources  within the field of behavioral and social sciences.  MLA, Modern Language Association Handbook,  providing guidelines for writing and documentation  of research in the humanities, such as English studies,  the study of other modern languages and literatures,  including comparative literature;  literary criticism;  media studies;  cultural studies;  and related disciplines  The CSE style for biology:  The ACS style for Chemistry:  The AP style book for Journalism:  The bluebook that prescribes the most widely used  legal citation system in the United States:  The IEEE citation style for engineering:  The AMA citation format for medicine:  That’s all for this section.  Thank you for watching.  This is the end of the Technical Writing course.  Thank you so much for taking time with us.  Gook luck with your future study.

