

4.1

﻿  Madison is a few months away from graduating from university.  Prior to applying for jobs,  she needs to get started with writing a resume.  She understands that  an attractive and well-crafted resume  can affect a potential employer’s first impression.  She decides to turn to Ms. Morris,  a career adviser at the Career Center of her school.  Ms. Morris tells Madison that to write an effective resume  she first needs to know the different types of resumes.  Ms. Morris explains that  there are two common resume styles:  the chronological resume and the functional resume.  The chronological résumé organizes information  in reverse chronological order for each section.  That is, what is most recent is considered  to be most important and should be listed first.  A chronological resume typically includes  the following sections:  Contact information  Objectives/goals  Education  Experience  Professional memberships and affiliations  Licenses and certifications  Skills  Awards and honors  Recent graduates usually use the chronological résumé  because in most cases they lack the enough  record of skills and accomplishments.  If you have limited education,  or if you have a lot of professional work experience,  you might want to create a functional résumé  that organizes information around an applicant’s unique skills.  In such type of resume,  sections are presented in priority order—  from most important to least important.  Whatever you present as most important  should be the information  that is most important to the prospective employer.  When you have impressive work experience,  that experience may be more important  to your employer than education.  If you are a recent graduate without much work experience,  you may want to include education first  as the most important qualification.  If you use a skills summary,  you should place it early on the resume.  That way, employers who quickly skim your resume  can focus on your major qualifications  even if they do not read further.  Tailored to suit the requirements of a particular job,  a functional resume has the following common sections:  Contact information  Summary of the most important qualifications for the job  Professional experience categorized  by skills rather than positions held  Employment history,  which is often a short listing of positions  in reverse chronological order  Education,  which is usually in reverse chronological order  After Madison has learned the two resume styles,  Ms. Morris illustrates the differences  of the two styles with two sample resumes.  This resume from Chris  is an example of a chronological resume.  Chris is applying for a job  that is related directly to his degree.  With only two years of related work experience,  he believes that his degree is his strongest asset  and that his related work experience (co-op)  is his next strongest asset.  Notice that he does not describe his other work experience  because it is not related to his job objective.  This is a functional resume from Carol.  Her circumstances are different from Chris’,  and a functional resume meets her needs.  Carol is not applying for her first full-time job  upon graduating from college;  she is an experienced mechanical engineering  manager applying for a managerial position.  Her resume focuses on her management experience  instead of employment chronology.  Now Madison has got a clear idea of the formats  of the chronological and functional resumes.  Ms. Morris goes on to explain the advantages  and disadvantages of the two resume styles.  The chronological resume offers several advantages.  First, it is easy to follow for the reader,  perhaps because the chronological resume  is more commonly used.  Second, this type of format highlights  the candidates’ most recent experience,  which is often the most relevant.  It is also easy to follow a career progression  with this type of resume.  Although the chronological resume is widely used,  it is not ideal for everyone.  It may be so similar to other resumes  that it does not stand out and may get lost  in the sameness of other chronological resumes.  While a functional resume can help an applicant  highlight his accomplishment and skills,  and de-emphasize short stints within a career,  it doesn’t clearly show an applicant’s education  and career development over time.  For example, it may not show the fact  that an applicant has a series of rapid promotions,  which implies competency, drive, and dedication.  Before Madison leaves, Ms. Morris emphasizes  that a resume should be a short one or two-page  document concisely describing what is relevant  for a position she is seeking.  She also reminds Madison  that there is not a resume fit  for all the jobs she is applying for  and that each should be customized for a particular job.  Having learned about chronological and functional resumes,  now Madison knows  what type of resume she is going to compose.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



4.2

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this lesson!  I’m going to take you through the different sections  of a resume by means of two examples.  The first resume you see here uses the format  of a reverse chronological résumé  to show a clear pattern of job experience.  Most chronological résumés have six basic elements:  Identifying Information,  Career Objective or Summary of Qualifications,  Education, Employment History,  Interests and Activities, and References.  Identifying Information includes your full name,  address, phone number, and e-mail.  After the identifying information,  there is a statement of objective or a summary of qualifications.  Career Objective is specific  and tailored to the job the applicant is seeking.  When drafting the statement, follow these suggestions:  First, state only the goals or duties explicitly mentioned,  or clearly implied, in the job advertisement.  Second, be specific.  You accomplish little by just writing  “Position offering opportunities  in the field of hotel management,  where I can use my communication and analytical skills.”  Specify what kind of position you want.  Sometimes job applicants with more experience  tend to write a summary of qualifications in this section.  This is usually a brief paragraph  that highlights three or four important skills  or accomplishments.  For example, an applicant with management  experience may summarize his qualifications this way:  Quality-driven mechanical engineering manager  whose tenure with Exhibit Design Lab  has been distinguished by exemplary-rated performance  and proven results.  Developer of next-generation exhibit design solutions  that have led to increased leads and sales.  Qualifications reinforced by strong aptitudes  in reliability engineering,  system troubleshooting,  and Lean Six Sigma principles.  The next is Education section  if you are a student or a recent graduate.  If you have substantial professional experience,  place Employment History section before Education section.  Education section lists  the full name of the school and its location;  degree and the date of graduation.  After the degree abbreviation (such as BS, BA, A.A, or MS),  list your academic major —  for example, “A.A. in Hotel and Restaurant Management,  minor in General Business.”  other relevant details.  Employment History presents at least the basic information  about each job you have held:  the dates of employment,  the organization’s name and location,  and your position or title.  Then, add carefully what you did and accomplished.  When you describe positions or responsibilities,  use the active voice like  “Scheduled custodial and room service staff”  rather than the passive voice  “Custodial and room service staff were scheduled by me”.  Note that writers often omit the “I” at the start of sentences.  Here the writer doesn’t say  “I scheduled custodial and room service staff”.  One further suggestion is listing jobs  in reverse chronological order to highlight  the most recent employment.  Interests and Activities section is the appropriate place  for several kinds of information about you:  participation in activities, skills, interests or hobbies.  Or like this writer, use a Personal section  to combine the related personal information  like awards, skills, and activities  that may be relevant to a job  to display his leadership, language, and teamwork.  Potential employers will want to learn more about  you from your professors and previous employers.  These people who are willing to speak or write  on your behalf are called references.  When no references are included,  use an “available on request” statement to substitute.  Well, so much for the content of a chronological resume.  Now let’s turn to a functional resume.  Like in a chronological resume,  here the writer also includes  contact information and objective.  What’s different is that a functional résumé  includes a separate section,  usually called “Skills” or “Skills and Abilities”.  You present Skills section  at the start to emphasize your professional attributes.  In this example, the writer emphasizes three skill areas  appropriate to the job,  with specific accomplishments in bullet list format:  sales or marketing skills,  communication and document design skills,  and organizational or management skills.  His goal, of course,  is to highlight the skills the employer is seeking.  Different from the corresponding section  in a chronological resume,  the Employment section here contains a list of positions rather  than descriptions of what the writer did in each position.  OK, now, as you have learned in this lesson,  whatever style you may choose,  a resume contains some basic elements:  contact information,  objective or summary of qualifications,  education, employment history,  interests and activities,  skills and abilities, and references.  In a functional resume,  you might want to elaborate on your professional skills  and knowledge in a separate Skills section  which is usually put first on your resume.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



4.3

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this lesson,  I’ll take you through some elements in composing  a professional resume.  To start with, let’s look at two resumes.  Which one is an attractive resume? And why?  Certainly, the second one is attractive  because it’s much easier to read and makes  a much better impression on readers.  The unattractive résumé, however,  with its inadequate margins, poor balance,  and poor line spacing, is a chore to read.  So what makes an attractive resume?  Let’s first take a look at the appearance of a resume.  A résumé has to appear neat and professional.  It should have Generous margins.  Leave a one-inch margin on all four sides.  Balance.  Arrange the information so that the page  has a balanced appearance.  Clear organization.  The line spacing between items should be greater  than the line spacing within an item.  That is, there should be more space  between your Education section  and your Employment section  than between items within either of those sections.  Appropriate indentation.  When you arrange items in a vertical list,  indent turnovers,  the second and subsequent lines of any item, a few spaces.  For example, this computer-skills section  from a résumé could be confusing.  But when the second line of the long entry is indented,  the arrangement is much easier to understand:  Next, let’s look at Word Choice.  When writing a resume,  you want to present information in as few words as possible.  A resume has its own grammar rules:  Sentences and paragraphs are not used  because they take too long to read.  Instead, resumes are written in fragments,  lists, descriptive phrases, and verbs.  How to use nouns?  For naming sections of Activities, Honors,  Achievements, and Awards,  use a list of nouns or nouns+descriptive phrases.  Here is an example:  All you read here are nouns+descriptive phrases  such as Knowledge of both Windows  and Macintosh environments,  Ability to program in a variety of languages,  and Experience installing and configuring networks.  Then how to use verbs?  Verb+what is a quick,  effective phrase to describe skills,  qualifications, and work experience.  Use action verbs to stress  what you can do for an employer.  Add details to the phrase to show more specific information.  As for the tense of verbs, use present tense for jobs  you currently hold and past tense for jobs you held.  If you have (or had) a title,  include the title before your list of duties  followed by a colon.  Also organize your list of duties in order of importance.  Finally I’d like to talk about  Specific Language in a resume.  Now let’s compare the following language  to detect the differences.  The language in the right column  is so vague that a potential employer  is unable to prove your qualifications  and tailor your resume to the skills the employer needs.  In contrast,  the language in the left column provides specific  and quantifiable information  for the potential employer  to evaluate your credentials and accomplishments.  This objective expresses a particular position  in a particular banking institution.  This one responds specifically to the job announcement.  This work description responds to query  for experience with EPA and OSHA,  and this specifies how many and when.  Therefore, the language in the left column  is acceptable in a resume.  So to recap briefly, attractive appearance,  appropriate word choice and specific language  make a professionally composed resume.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.



4.4

﻿  Many people know job applications require a resume,  but have forgotten the importance of taking the time  to submit a cover letter along with their resume.  The main purpose of the cover letter is to explain  how your credentials fit the particular job.  Another purpose of the letter  is to highlight specific qualifications or skills.  An application letter usually consists  of an introduction, body, and conclusion.  Next, we’ll see what you need say in each section.  The introductory paragraph has four specific functions:  identifying the position you are interested in.  identifying your source of information.  stating that you wish to be considered for the position.  forecasting the rest of the letter.  For example, if you use the phrase  “retail experience” in the opening paragraph,  you are preparing your reader for the discussion  of your retail experience later in the letter.  Let’s see how this introductory paragraph  of a cover letter incorporates the four elements:  I am writing in response to your notice  in the online May New York Times.  I would like to be considered  for the position in system programming.  I hope you find that my studies  in computer science at Eastern University,  along with my programming experience  at Airborne Instruments, qualify me for the position.  In the first two sentences the writer identifies  the date of the ad, the name of the publication,  and the name of the position.  Then, he forecasts in the last sentence  the main points he will make in the body of the letter.  The body of the letter justifies your claim  that you can work for the company  by proving your credentials.  The second paragraph might focus on educational achievements  and the third paragraph might focus on work experience.  One thing I might want to point out is that for most students,  the education paragraph  should come before the employment paragraph  because the education paragraph will be stronger.  However, if your employment experience  is stronger, present it first.  In writing your education paragraph,  take your cue from the job ad (if you are responding to one).  Ask yourself what aspect of your education  most directly fits the job requirements.  Also, you might discuss course work  in a subject related to your major,  such as business or communication skills.  Extracurricular activities are often very valuable.  Perhaps the most popular strategy  for developing the education paragraph  is to discuss skills and knowledge gained  from advanced course work in your major field.  Here is an example of education paragraph.  To broaden my education at Southern University,  I took eight business courses in addition  to my requirements for a degree in civil engineering.  Because your ad mentions that the position  will require substantial client contact,  I believe that my work in marketing,  in particular, would be of special value.  In an advanced marketing seminar,  I used InDesign to produce a 20-page sales brochure  describing the various kinds of building structures  for sale by Oppenheimer Properties to industrial customers  in our section of the city.  That brochure is now being used at Oppenheimer,  where I am an intern.  This writer elaborates on a field other than his major.  Note how he develops an idea  based on a detail in the job ad.  This strategy shows that  he studied the ad carefully and wrote a custom letter.  This initiative makes him the sort of candidate  most hiring officials would like to interview.  Like the education paragraph,  the employment paragraph should develop a single idea  that you have a broad background or that one job  in particular has given you special skills  that make you especially well suited for the vacancy.  For instance, this writer suggests  in his employment paragraph  that he has technical and interpersonal skills  and that his company thought he did an excellent job  on a project he coordinated.  I have worked in merchandising for three years  as a part-time and summer salesperson  in men’s fashions and accessories.  I have had experience running inventory-control software  and helped one company switch  from a manual to an online system.  Most recently,  I assisted in clearing $in closeout men’s fashions:  I coordinated a campaign  to sell half of the merchandise at cost  and was able to convince the manufacturer’s representative  to accept the other half for full credit.  For this project, I received a certificate of appreciation  from the company president.  To sum up, the theme of education  and employment paragraphs is that  an effective paragraph has a sharp focus  and specific evidence  and that it clearly suggests the writer’s qualifications.  Finally, here comes the concluding paragraph.  The enclosed résumé provides an overview  of my education and experience.  Could I meet with you at your convenience  to discuss my qualifications for this position?  Please leave a message anytime at (215) 555-  or e-mail me at crodrig@dragon.du.edu.  It can be seen here that the last paragraph  in the cover letter contains three main elements:  Referring to the enclosed résumé.  Requesting an interview.  Telling how and when you can be reached  by including your phone and e-mail address.  Ok, before we conclude our lesson,  ask yourself the following questions  to check your understanding:  What does a job application cover letter consist of?  How can you compose a forceful opening?  How can you respond to your reader’s needs  in the education and employment paragraphs?  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.

