

8.1

﻿  Xiao Wang is the production manager  at the Southeast Asian branch of a Chinese tech company.  He just received an e-mail from Alice Enklend,  the purchasing director,  asking him how many copies of a user’s guide a corporate customer  had commissioned the firm to provide.  Xiao Wang probably had the answer at his fingertips  or was able to find it  after a quick look at his intranet invoicing program.  In this case, Xiao Wang’s research—or tracking down  of information on the topic—would be minimal.  Well, let’s suppose, instead,  that Xiao Wang were asked to write a market-research report  for the director of the local branch about moving  the company’s working and archived files off-site  to a cloud computing account.  The report would need to provide information on:  Would doing so save money?  Compromise security and confidentiality?  Free computer technology staff for other tasks?  Provide emergency backup?  How would Xiao Wang go about obtaining the necessary information?  For this task, he would have to do some extensive work,  which could involve primary research—conducting interviews  or even collecting questionnaire responses on the topic—  or secondary research—  gathering published information from the internet,  attending a webinar, reviewing blogs, and the like.  Let’s start with primary research.  Primary research is the gathering of raw data  from such sources as firsthand experience,  interviews with experts or potential users,  direct observations of activities,  and questionnaires to specific populations.  You can always begin with your experience.  If the project you are working on deals with a topic  that is familiar to you,  you may already know enough to get started.  You can also check your files for any materials you  have acquired on the subject,  and more importantly,  how much you need to find out.  You may also interview an expert on the subject to learn  from the knowledge and experience of others.  After making an appointment for the interview,  prepare a list of questions for the interviewee  and send it before the meeting.  Interview questions can be of any type,  but try to avoid vague, general ones  such as “Does the internet help your business?”  Instead, ask specific but open-ended questions  such as “Has your company’s WeChat account improved  communications with Chinese customers?”  or “Do your website’s usage statistics help focus  your organization’s marketing strategies?”  Such questions prompt interviewees to provide specific information  that will give you in-depth insight into the subject.  Arrive for your interview a little earlier  than the appointment time and be prepared  to guide the discussion.  Once you’ve introduced yourself,  take a few minutes to chat informally—this will help both you  and your interviewee to relax.  Your interview is not finished  when you say good-bye to your interviewee.  You need to expand your notes immediately.  Use your memory-jogging comments to help you  mentally go over the interview and record your detailed notes.  If you have an audio or video recording,  transcribe the interview and add your  remarks to complement the material.  Last but not least, don’t forget to send a thank-you email  to your interviewee a day or two after the interview.  Let’s move on to other useful research methods.  Observation and questionnaires  are also good resources of information.  Visiting a location and conducting firsthand observations  may provide valuable information  about how a process or procedure works.  If you plan research that involves observation,  choose your sites and times carefully,  and be sure to obtain permission in advance.  During your observations,  remain as unobtrusive as possible and keep accurate,  complete records that indicate date, time of day,  duration of the observation, and so on.  Do not try to make an assumption or interpretation  while you are still on site.  Save the interpretation of your observations for future analysis.  While observation can generate in-depth analysis,  its scope is limited as one researcher cannot  reach out to everyone who may be able to  contribute information to the subject.  Thus, to expand the number of people you gather information  from beyond those you’ve interviewed,  you may consider using a questionnaire.  A questionnaire is a series of questions on a particular topic,  sent to a number of people  who you believe will best provide the information  or insights you are looking for.  Create questions that are easy to understand.  Participants should be able to answer most questions  with a “yes” or “no”, or by checking  a choice among several options.  Such questions are easy to tabulate  and require minimum effort to complete,  thus increasing your chances of gathering more responses.  Try to use neutral language to avoid biased questions  that might lead to skewed answers.  For example  A biased questions is:  Would you prefer the freedom of a four-day workweek?  and a neutral question would be:  Would you choose to work a four-day workweek,  ten hours a day, with every Friday off?  Okay. This is all for this section.  Thanks for watching.



8.2

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  In addition to the primary research methods  we have discussed in part  Xiao Wang may also use secondary data to support his work as well.  Secondary research involves gathering information  that has been previously analyzed, assessed, evaluated, compiled,  or otherwise organized into an accessible form.  Secondary resources include books, articles, reports,  web documents, online discussion forums,  audio and video recordings, business letters,  meeting minutes, operating manuals, brochures, and so forth.  When used to frame your ideas in context,  these resources provide your readers  with useful information that help them understand the context.  As in Xiao Wang’s case, he decides to conduct research  using a workplace source relevant to his needs,  his library, and the internet.  The workplace is an extremely valuable  source of secondary information.  You will find information in a company’s existing online  and printed technical and promotional works  —in white papers, manuals, blogs, and other web resources;  in technical specifications;  and in a variety of reports.  In large corporations, this content is usually  maintained in content-management systems (CMS).  These systems house collections of documents  and related items, mostly created by employees,  but from outside resources as well.  For example, product photographs,  competitor research reports and materials,  topical e-mails, past versions of reports and manuals, and so on.  This process of copying or converting  such content when it is suitable to the ongoing project,  is called repurposing.  Repurposing saves time because content  that often requires substantial effort to develop  need not be re-created for each new application.  Before you reuse any content,  be sure to assess the scope, audience,  and purpose of the new setting  and decide on the choices of content accordingly.  If necessary, adapt the existing content to the new context,  such as revising the tense, voice, tone, grammar,  point of view, technical terms, etc.  You may consult a content management specialist if needed.  Libraries provide organized paths into scholarship,  information, and the ever-expanding internet.  As a student or an affiliate of the school,  you will have access to resources not otherwise available to you,  such as subscription-only databases  of recently published journal articles.  Although you may be able to find listings or abstracts  of such articles on your personal computer,  you may only be able to access the full article text  through your school’s library,  which has already purchased a subscription to the database.  Here are some databases that you might find useful:  Of course, you have another option: open access resources.  In the spirit of overcoming knowledge-sharing barriers,  the open access movement has provided the public  with scholarly research literature  that has been previously owned and distributed by publishers,  such as Springer and Pearsons, just name a couple.  Methods for searching library catalogs vary.  Typically, you can search by author, title, subject, or keywords.  Be familiar with the way your library’s catalog works.  If you happen to be at the library,  you may ask a reference librarian  to give you a brief tour of the catalog;  otherwise, you may check for guidelines or FAQs.  Here are some basic steps to search a library catalog:  Consider multiple search terms.  If your initial search doesn’t lead to anything  about your specific topic,  try to broaden your search terms.  Skim subject headings.  If you find a listing for one book that looks useful,  the subject headings on the screen may lead  you to other relevant sources  Browse the shelves.  Librarians shelve related books together.  Combine searching the catalog with browsing the shelves.  Set search limits.  If your search turns up too many results,  narrow it by using the “limit search” or “advanced search”  option offered by many catalogs.  Using the “advanced search” page,  you can limit your search by language, data range, or media type.  Although the internet contains a wealth of information,  it has no single indexing mechanism,  that is, no single catalog that brings the information together  for browsing or easy access, unlike the service a library offers.  However, search engines can streamline your internet search.  A preferred strategy  is to study how your favorite search engine works.  Although search engines vary in what and how they search,  each one of them provides detailed instruction  on their help pages,  and you can use some of the recommended strategies  to look for the information you need.  The problem with search engines is that  they are usually linked to an extensive base of unsorted,  unorganized information,  thus sometimes leaving the users at a loss.  Subject directories  can give you more focused information sorting.  Here I list a couple of subject directories for your reference.  That’s all for this section.  Thanks for watching.



8.3

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  As you carry out research,  it is important to understand the distinction  between materials that require acknowledgement  --such as in-text citation, footnotes, or endnotes,  and in the work-cited list or bibliography  -- and those that do not.  When you quote directly from another source,  use only the information you need to support your point.  Here are a few long-standing techniques to help you do  so  and to credit your information sources.  Direct quotation  A direct quotation is a word-for-word  copy of the text of an original source.  Direct quotation can be of a word,  a phrase, a sentence, or occasionally, a paragraph.  Choose direct quotations carefully and use them sparingly.  Enclose direct quotation in quotation marks  and separate them from the rest of the sentence  by using a comma or colon.  Here are a few examples  to demonstrate the basic rules of direct quotations.  The initial capital letter of a quotation is retained  if the quoted material originally began with a capital letter.  When a quotation is divided,  the material that interrupts the quotation is set off,  before and after, by commas;  and quotation marks are used around each part of the quotation.  Indirect quotations  An indirect quotation is paraphrased version of an original text.  It is usually introduced by the word that  and is not set off from the rest of the sentence  by punctuation marks.  Here is an example of indirect quotation.  Deletion or omissions  Deletion or omissions from quoted material are indicated  by three ellipsis points (…) within a sentence  and a period plus three ellipsis points (….)  at the end of a sentence.  When a quoted passage begins  in the middle of a sentence rather than at the beginning,  ellipsis points are not necessary;  The fact that the first letter of the quoted material  is not capitalized tells the reader  that the quotation begins in midsentence.  Inserting material into quotations  When it is necessary to insert a clarifying comment  within quoted material, use brackets.  When quoted material contains an obvious error  or might be questioned in some other way,  the expression sic, which means “thus” in Latin,  in italic type and enclosed in bracket,  follows the questionable material to indicate  that the writer has quoted the material exactly  as it appeared in the original.  Block quote  Material that runs longer than at least words  in APA style or four lines in MLA style  is usually set off from the body of the text by being indented.  The quoted passage is spaced the same  as the surrounding text and is not enclosed in quotation marks,  as shown in the example, which uses APA style.  If you are not following a specific style manual,  you may block indent one-inch  from both the left and right margins  for reports and other documents.  Do not rely too heavily on the use of quotations  in the final version of your document.  Generally, avoid quoting anything  that is more than one paragraph.  Now let’s talk about paraphrasing.  Paraphrasing means more than just changing  or shuffling a few words;  it means restating or rewriting in your own words  the essential ideas of another writer  —sometimes in a clearer, more direct way.  Because the paraphrase does not quote the source word for word,  quotation marks are not needed.  However, paraphrased material should be credited  because the ideas are taken from another author or piece of work.  Here are some guidelines for paraphrasing.  Refer to the author early in the paraphrase,  to indicate the beginning of the borrowed content.  Retain key words from the original, to preserve its meaning.  Restructure and combine original sentences  for emphasis and fluency.  Delete needless word from the original, for conciseness.  Use your own words and phrase to clarify the author’s ideas.  Cite the exact source,  to mark the end of the borrowed passage and to give full credit.  Be sure to preserve the author’s original intent.  Let’s take a look at an example.  That’s all for this section.  Thank you for watching.



8.4

﻿  Hello, everyone welcome back!  This is the last section of this course.  In this section we will talk about plagiarism.  Plagiarism is the use of someone else’s ideas  without acknowledgement  or the use of someone else’s exact words  without quotation marks and appropriate credit.  Plagiarism is the theft of someone else’s creative  and intellectual property,  and it is unacceptable in business, science,  journalism, academia, or any other field.  The rapid development of internet resources  has spawned a wide array of misconceptions about plagiarism.  Some people mistakenly assume that  because material posted on a website,  a social media feed, or a blog is free,  it can be paraphrased or copied without proper citation.  Despite the ease of copying and pasting digital information,  the fact remains:  Any time you borrow someone else’s words, ideas,  perspective, or images—regardless of the medium  used in the original source—  you will need to document the original source accurately.  Here are some basic principles regarding the plagiarism issue.  Principle No.Acknowledging your sources:  The gold standard for avoiding ethical and legal problems  is to carefully document your sources of information.  This standard applies both in the classroom and in the workplace,  regardless of whether your primary audience  is your instructor, your company management,  or the readers of a publication or website.  You don’t need to document common knowledge.  Common knowledge refers to information  that is widely known and readily available  in handbooks, manuals, atlases, and other references.  It may also refer to information within a specific field  that is generally known by those outside the field.  Principle No. Copyrights, patents, and trademarks.  Most published material—written or visual  — is copyrighted in workplace writing.  You must obtain prior approval to reproduce  or use all copyrighted information  and cite the source of that information in your final work.  However, small amounts of materials  from a copyrighted source may be used,  especially for educational purpose,  without permission or payment as long as you indicate  that it is someone else’s material  and you use it to serve an educational purpose.  Principle No. Documenting sources  By documenting your sources,  you identify where you obtained the facts, ideas, quotations,  and paraphrase you used in preparing your content.  Major documentation styles include:  APA, which stands for Publication Manual  of the American Psychological Association.  It is commonly used for citing sources  within the field of behavioral and social sciences.  MLA, Modern Language Association Handbook,  providing guidelines for writing and documentation  of research in the humanities, such as English studies,  the study of other modern languages and literatures,  including comparative literature;  literary criticism;  media studies;  cultural studies;  and related disciplines  The CSE style for biology:  The ACS style for Chemistry:  The AP style book for Journalism:  The bluebook that prescribes the most widely used  legal citation system in the United States:  The IEEE citation style for engineering:  The AMA citation format for medicine:  That’s all for this section.  Thank you for watching.  This is the end of the Technical Writing course.  Thank you so much for taking time with us.  Gook luck with your future study.

