

2.1

﻿  Document design refers to the page layout of a document.  It includes the placement of visuals  and information on a page  and the connection between these elements,  both on that one page and throughout  the other pages of a multi-page document,  for example, a user manual or a technical report.  In designing a technical document,  you have five major goals:  To make a good impression on readers.  To help readers understand the structure  and hierarchy of the information.  To help readers find the information they need.  To help readers understand the information.  To help readers remember the information.  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to effectively design  a document to achieve these goals.  To design effective documents,  you need to understand a few basic design principles.  The four major principles in Robin William's  The Non-designer's Design Book  are proximity,  alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Although we will discuss each one  of these principles separately,  keep in mind that they are really interconnected.  Rarely will you apply only one principle.  Proximity  The principle of proximity is simple,  that is, related items should be grouped together.  If two items appear close to each other,  the reader will interpret them as one visual  unit rather than several separate units.  This helps organize information,  reduces clutter,  and gives the reader a clear impression.  Take a look at this typical business card layout.  How many separate elements do you see?  In other words,  how many times do your eyes stop to look at something?  Do your eyes stop five times?  Of course,  there are five separate items on this little card.  Where do you begin reading?  In the middle,  probably because that phrase is boldest.  Then, what do you read next?  From left to right or from top to bottom?  A problem with this card is that  not one of the items on the card  seems related to any other item.  It is not clear  where you should begin reading the card,  and it is not clear where you should finish.  If we group related elements together,  into closer proximity, see what happens:  Now is there any question  about where you begin to read the card?  Where do your eyes go next?  Do you know what you should read last?  With that one simple principle,  this card is now organized  both intellectually and visually.  And thus it communicates more clearly.  Alignment  The principle of alignment is that  you should consciously place text  and graphics on the page  so that the reader can understand  the relationships among these elements.  Although you might have separated certain elements  to indicate their relationships  by using the principle of proximity,  the principle of alignment  is what tells the reader that the invisible line  connecting the text is much stronger.  This is because it has a hard-vertical edge to follow.  Let's look at the business card again.  This example has a nice arrangement  with the text items grouped into logical proximity.  The text is center-aligned,  and centered on the page.  Although this is a legitimate alignment,  the edges are “soft”.  You don't really see the strength of the line.  Then, how about this one?  This has the same logical arrangement as the previous,  but it is now right-aligned.  Can you see the “hard” edge on the right?  The invisible line runs right down here,  connecting the separate pieces of text.  You can actually see the edge.  The strength of this edge  is what gives strength to the layout.  When items are aligned on the page,  the result is a stronger cohesive unit.  Ok, we have discussed two principles  of designing technical documents.  For proximity,  simply group related elements together  to create clearly defined sections.  For alignment,  find a strong alignment and stick to it.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section, thank you.



2.2

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to effectively design a document.  As discussed previously,  to design effective documents,  you need to understand a few basic design principles.  The four major principles in Robin William's  The Non-designer's Design Book  are proximity, alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Repetition  The principle of repetition is that you  should treat the same kind of information  in the same way to create consistent patterns.  For example,  all first-level headings should have the same typeface,  type size, spacing above and below, and so forth.  This repetition signals a connection  between headings,  making the content easier to understand.  Here is the same business card  we worked with previously.  In the second example below,  we have added a repetitive element:  a repetition of the strong, bold typeface.  Take a look at it,  and notice where your eye moves  when you get to the end of the information.  When you get to the phone number,  where do you look next?  Do you find that you go back to the other bold type?  This is a visual trick that designers have always  used to control a reader's eye,  to keep your attention on the page  as long as possible.  The bold repetition also helps unify the entire design.  This is a very easy way to tie pieces  of a design package together.  Contrast  The principle of contrast is one of  the most effective ways to add visual interest  to your page and to create  an organizational hierarchy among different elements.  Contrast works in several different ways  in technical documents.  You can contrast large type with small type;  a graceful oldstyle font  with a bold sans serif font;  a thin line with a thick line;  a cool color  with a warm color;  widely-spaced lines with closely-packed lines;  a small graphic with a large graphic.  But you cannot contrast 12-point type  with 14-point type.  You cannot contrast a narrow line  with a slightly wider line.  You cannot contrast dark brown with black.  If two items are not exactly the same,  make them different, really different.  Let's take the report cover you see here  and apply each of the four design principles in turn.  This is a rather typical but dull report cover:  centered, evenly spaced to fill the page.  If you couldn't read English,  you might think  there are six separate topics on this page.  Each line seems an element unto itself.  By applying the principle of proximity,  we put the title and subtitle close to each other.  It is now clear that those two topics are closely related.  When we move the author and date farther away,  it becomes instantly clear that  that they are not part of the title.  Even though the author's name  is far from the title,  there is a visual connection between the two elements  because of the alignment to each other.  The example on the previous page is also center aligned.  As you can see, though,  a flush left or flush right alignment,  as shown here, gives a stronger edge,  a stronger line for your eye to follow.  A flush left or flush right alignment often tends  to impart a more sophisticated look  than a centered alignment does.  By applying the principle of repetition,  the distinctive typeface in the title  is repeated in the author's name,  which strengthens their connection even though  they are physically far apart on the page.  The font for the other text holds a lighter weight.  By applying the principle of contrast,  we simply add the black boxes here.  Does the report cover look clear and sophisticated?  Ok, we have discussed the four principles  of designing a technical document.  They are proximity, alignment,  repetition and contrast.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



2.3

﻿  Using words only,  write directions from your school to your home.  Then draw a map with arrows to show the same route.  Which is easier to understand,  the written directions or the map?  The answer is obvious: the map.  Hello, everyone!  In this section we will talk about  how to design visual information in technical writing.  We will start by discussing the importance of visuals,  then we will cover different types of visuals  and how to choose the right ones.  Why visual matters?  Visuals are important in technical writing.  Visuals, like the map, make information easier  to interpret and remember.  When people look at a visual pattern,  such as a graph,  they get they get information quickly and efficiently.  The following line graph  has no verbal information.  The axes are not labeled,  nor is the topic identified.  But one quick glance,  without the help of gradual rise,  has risen sharply.  The graph conveys information in a way  plain text never could.  When we read the long list of numbers  in this passage,  can you visualize the trend depicted in the graph?  Types of visuals  In general, you should use visuals  whenever they can make your point  more clearly than text can.  What are the major types of visuals?  Let’s look at the following visuals and their types.  Can you match them?  Yes, Visual A is a table,  Visual B is a graph,  Visual C is a chart  and Visual D is a graphic illustration.  Let’s talk about these visuals one by one.  Tables  Tables display organized data across  columns and rows for easy comparison.  We often use numerical tables  to compare exact values and prose tables  to organize verbal information.  This numerical table compares years of potential life  lost before age  and numbers are aligned properly  for ease of reading.  And data are tallied where helpful.  This is a prose table.  Column headings lead into the information.  Phrases are brief and aligned for ease of reading.  Numbers enhance the verbal information.  And below the table, a note provides more details.  Graphs  Graphs translate numbers  into shapes, shades, and patterns.  There are various types of graphs,  including, bar graphs to show comparison,  line graphs to show a trend over time,  such as cost or other variables.  Let’s take a look at these two types of graphs.  Both of them have a title  to give readers the big picture.  Either the comparison or the trend  is easy to see with each axis clearly labeled.  Charts  Charts depict relationships via geometric arrows,  lines, and other design elements.  Let’s look at these charts.  Flowcharts are used to trace the steps,  or decisions in a procedure or process.  Gantt charts are used to depict  how the phases of a project relate.  Tree charts are used to show  how the parts of an idea or concept relate.  Pictograms use icons or other graphic devices  that represent the displayed items.  Let’s take a close look at one of them.  This flowchart is designed  to be read quickly in an emergency.  Simple “yes or no” and “collapsed or conscious”  questions lead to next steps.  Graphic illustrations  Graphic illustrations rely on pictures  rather than on data or words.  How do we choose the right visuals  since there are so many different types.  To select the most effective display,  answer these questions:  What is the purpose for using this visual?  Who is my audience for these visuals?  For question  think about your purpose for using this visual.  To convey facts and figures alone,  a table may be the best choice.  But if you want your audience to draw conclusions  from that data, you may use a graph  or chart to show comparisons.  For question  Expert audiences tend to prefer numerical tables,  flowcharts, schematics,  and complex graphs or diagrams  that they can interpret for themselves.  General audiences tend to prefer basic tables,  graphs, diagrams, and other visuals  that direct their focus  and interpret key points extracted from the data.  So, make a wise choice.  All right, we have discussed why visuals matter,  what the different types of visuals  are and how we should choose the right ones.  Have you got it?  That’s all for this section, thank you.



2.4

﻿  Hello, everyone! In this section,  we will talk about how to create a design  that works for your readers.  To design effective technical documents,  you should aim to achieve a consistent look  for your pages,  to highlight certain material and to aid navigation.  Shaping the page  In shaping a page,  consider its look,  feel, and overall layout.  The following suggestions will help  you shape appealing and usable pages.  Provide page numbers, headers, and footers.  For a long document,  count your title page as page i,  without numbering it,  and number all front matter pages,  including the table of contents and abstract,  with lowercase Roman numerals ii, iii, iv.  Number the first text page and subsequent pages  with Arabic numerals   3.  Along with page numbers,  headers and footers appear in the top  and bottom page margins, respectively.  These provide chapter or article titles,  authors' names, dates,  or other publication information.  Use a grid.  A page grid is like a map  by which you plan where the text,  the graphics and the white space will go.  By subdividing a page into modules,  grids help readers make sense of material.  The following shows a sample of grid patterns.  Brochures and newsletters typically employ  a two- or three-column grid, or vertical grid.  Most memos, letters, and reports  use a single-column grid, or horizontal grid.  And web pages often use a combined grid.  Use white space to create areas of emphasis.  In the examples here,  notice how the white space pulls  your eye toward the pages in different ways.  In example one,  the eye moves to the “gutter” between the columns.  In example two,  the white space draws readers to the middle paragraph.  In example three,  white space gives each paragraph equal weight.  Make lists for easy reading  Depending on the list's contents,  highlight each item  with some kind of visual or verbal signal.  As shown here,  a bulleted list makes items easy to locate,  a numbered list highlights the order of steps,  and a checklist indicates requirements  to be satisfied.  Styling the words and letters  Select an appropriate typeface  All typefaces are divided into two broad categories:  serif and sans serif.  Serifs are the fine lines that extend horizontally  from the main strokes of a letter.  Serif type makes printed body copy more readable  because the horizontal lines  “bind the individual letters”  and thereby guide the reader's eyes  from letter to letter.  Serif fonts look traditional,  the sort you see in newspapers or formal reports.  Sans serif type is purely vertical,  clean-looking and businesslike.  “Sans”, in French means “without”.  Sans serif is ideal for technical material,  like numbers, equations,  for marginal comments,  headings, examples, tables, and captions,  and any other material set off from the body copy.  Sans serif is also more readable  in projected environments such as  overhead transparencies and PowerPoint slides.  Use full caps sparingly  Long passages in full capitals are hard to read  because uppercase letters  lack ascenders and descenders.  Use full caps as section headings,  like INTRODUCTION,  or to highlight a word or phrase.  Adding emphasis  Once you have selected the appropriate font,  you can use different features  to highlight important elements  such as headings, special terms,  key points, or warnings.  These features include indention, lines,  boldface,  small or large type sizes and color.  Whichever options you select, be consistent.  Using headings for access and orientation  You can phrase your headings in various ways,  such as providing topic headings  by using a word or short phrase,  statement headings by using a sentence,  or question headings by posing the questions  in the same way readers are likely to ask them.  Examples of these three ways are listed here.  However,  you should make headings visually consistent.  Along with being visually consistent,  headings of the same level  should also be grammatically parallel.  All right, in this section we have talked about  shaping the page,  styling the words and letters,  adding emphasis,  and using headings for access and orientation.  Have you got it?  That's all for this section. Thank you.

