

5.1

﻿  Unit  Instructions  1. Designing and writing instructions  Instructions spell out the steps required  for completing a task or a series of tasks.  For example,  instructions help people set up bookstores,  use electronic equipment,  maintain computers, and so on.  Effective instructions enable people  to complete a job safely and effectively.  How can we write effective instructions?  You've probably encountered an instruction  that failed to define unfamiliar terminology,  didn't tell you what equipment you needed to perform the task,  or didn't warn you about the dangers.  Usually, such poorly written instructions occur  because writers fail to consider their audience's needs.  Successful instructions,  in contrast, start with audience recognition.  For example,  you are told to "size the cutting according to regular use",  but you have never regularly performed this activity before.  High-tech readers might be able to follow these instructions,  but many more readers will be confused.  The problem is caused by writers who assume  that their readers have the same background knowledge  about what they need to do.  So consider the level of knowledge of readers first.  If all your readers have good backgrounds in the topic,  you can use fairly specialized terms.  If that is not the case, use plain language  or include a glossary for specialized terms  that you cannot avoid.  As the writer,  you need to recognize accurately  who your readers are and give them what they want.  The key to success as a writer of instructions is:  Don't assume anything;  Spell it out clearly and thoroughly.  Besides analyzing your readers and purpose,  you need to know the language styles employed  for writing instructions.  First, clear and easy-to-follow instructions  are written as commands in the imperative mood,  active voice and whenever possible, present tense.  Please look at the following sentence:  Version  The access lid will be raised by the operator.  Version  Raise the access lid.  Obviously, the second version is clear,  direct and easy-to-follow.  Second, although conciseness  is important in instructions, clarity is essential.  You can make sentences shorter  by leaving out some articles, some pronouns, and some verbs.  But such sentences may result in a telegraphic style  and be harder for the reader to understand.  Look at the following two sentences:  The first sentence is somewhat confusing  without articles and the pronoun "you".  And the second sentence is much clear.  One good way to make instructions easy to follow  is to divide them into short,  simple steps in their proper sequence.  Steps can be organized with words,  such as first, next, finally, that indicate time or sequence.  The following is a good example.  It's easy for the readers to follow the steps.  You can also use numbers, just like this.  You can use the bullets and numbering feature  of your word processing software to create sequenced steps.  Plan ahead for your reader.  If the instructions in Step Two  will affect a process in Step Nine, say so in Step Two.  Sometimes, your instructions have to make clear  that two operations must be performed simultaneously.  In this case,  you should include both operations in one step.  For example, the first version shows two operations,  but in fact, they should be performed simultaneously.  So the second version is clear.  You need to design your instructions  based on your audience, purpose and subject.  You need to decide whether you should write  a one-page set of instructions  or a longer document that needs to be bound.  Or you might decide to write several versions of the information.  You also need to consider your resources,  especially your budget.  Long documents cost more than short ones;  color costs more than black and white.  Designing a set of instructions is much like designing  any other kind of technical document.  Surely, you want to create a document  that is attractive and easy to use.  So you need to consider a number of issues  related to document design and page design.  What are your readers' expectations?  For a simple, inexpensive product,  such as a light switch,  readers will expect to find instructions  written on the back of the  packaging  or printed in black and white  on a small sheet of paper folded inside.  For an expensive consumer product,  such as a car, readers will expect to find instructions  in a more sophisticated,  full-color document printed on high-quality paper.  Do you need to create more than one set of instructions  for different audiences?  If you are writing about a complex device,  such as a solar heating system,  you may decide to create one set of instructions  for professionals, who will install and maintain the device,  and one set for homeowners, who will operate the device.  You might even want to make a brief video  of the tasks you describe in the instructions.  What languages should you use?  You might decide to include instructions  in two or more languages.  Doing so will help you communicate better with more people.  Will readers be anxious  about the process they have to follow?  If readers will find the information intimidating,  make the design unintimidating.  For example, for some complicated instructions,  create open pages with a lot of white space and graphics.  Use large type and narrow text columns  so that each page contains a relatively  small amount of information.  Will the environment in which the instructions  are read affect the document design?  If people will be using the instructions outdoors,  you will need to use a coated paper  that can tolerate moisture or dirt.  If people will be reading the instructions in a small,  enclosed area, you might select a small paper size  and a binding that allows the readers  to fold the pages over to save space.  Look at these two instructions.  Obviously, the left one is cluttered,  containing far too much information.  In addition,  the page is not chunked effectively.  As a result, the readers' eyes don't know where to focus.  The right one is much more attractive,  containing an appropriate amount of information  presented in a simple two-column format.  Notice the effective use of white space  and the horizontal rules separating the steps.  Thank you for watching.



5.2

﻿  2. Outlining instructions  Instructions that are clear and  easy to follow prevent miscommunication  and help readers complete tasks effectively and safely.  To write effective instructions,  you must thoroughly understand the process,  system, or device you are describing.  And an important step of writing a good instruction is outlining.  Not every instruction will contain the same components.  Some very short instructions  will consist of nothing more than a few, numbered steps.  Other instructions,  however, will consist of more components,  such as those in this figure.  Title Page  Preface your instruction with a title page  that consists of the topic about which you are writing,  the purpose of the instruction,  and a graphic depicting your product or service.  For example, to merely title your instruction "iPod"  would be uninformative.  It names the product,  but it does not explain why the instruction is being written.  Will the text discuss operating instructions,  troubleshooting, service or maintenance?  A better title would be "Operating Instructions for the iPod".  Adding a graphical representation lets your audience see  what the finished product will look like  and helps you market your product or service.  Safety Requirements  You can place safety requirements anywhere throughout your text.  If a particular step presents a danger to the reader,  call attention to this hazard  just before asking the reader to perform the step.  Similarly, to help your audience complete an action,  place a note before the step,  suggesting the importance of using the correct tool,  or wearing protective equipment.  Table of Contents  Usually, your instruction may have several sections.  In addition to the steps, the instructional manual  could include technical specifications, warranties,  guarantees, FAQs, troubleshooting tips  and customer service contact numbers.  An effective table of contents will allow  your readers to go to any of these sections individually  on an as-needed basis.  Introduction  A user manual also provides an opportunity  for a company to make contact and connect with its customers.  Therefore, instructions often are reader-friendly  and seek to achieve audience recognition  and audience involvement.  The manuals try to reach customers in a personalized way.  Here is an example of an instruction from a user manual.  This introduction uses pronouns, you and your,  to personalize the manual.  The introduction also uses positive words,  such as "thank you" and "pleasure",  to achieve positive customer contact.  An effective introduction promotes  good customer-company relationships.  Required Tools or Equipment  What tools or equipment  will the audience need to perform the procedures?  You don't want your audience to be in the middle  of performing a step and suddenly realize  that a missing piece of equipment is needed.  Provide this important information either  through a list or graphics depicting the tools  or equipment necessary to complete the tasks.  This is an example about "tools required".  Glossary  If you want to use the abbreviation CCW,  will the readers know that you are referring to "counterclockwise"?  If your audience is not familiar with your terminology,  they might miss important information  and perform an operation incorrectly.  So avoid this problem. Define your abbreviations,  acronyms, or technical terms.  You can define your terms early in the instruction,  throughout the manual,  or in a glossary located at the end of your manual.  Instructional steps  The instructional steps  are the most important part of your manual.  Here are some general guidelines  for drafting steps in instructions.  1. Number the instructions,  which can help your readers refer to the correct step.  2. Present the right amount of information in each step.  Each step should define a single task  the reader can carry out easily.  3. Use the imperative mood,  which expresses a request or a command.  The imperative is more direct and economical.  4. Do not omit articles.  Omitting articles can make the instructions  unclear and hard to read.  For example, "Locate midpoint and draw line."  The reader cannot tell if "draw line"  is a noun, as in "locate the draw line",  or a verb and its object, as in "draw a line".  Additional components  An instruction might include some additional components:  1.Technical description.  It could be a part-by-part explanation  or labeling of a product's or system's component.  2. Warranties, which can protect both  the customer and the manufacturer.  3. Disclaimers.  You can ensure that your company  is legally protected by clearly stating  what your company is not responsible for.  4. Frequently Asked Questions.  By including a FAQs page in the user manual,  common consumer concerns can be addressed immediately,  which will save your company time and money,  while improving customer relations.  5. Corporate Contact Information.  Conclude your manual by providing your company's address,  telephone number, fax number, email address,  social media links, or other ways your audience  could contact the company with questions or requests  for more information.  Graphics. Clarify your points graphically.  Use drawings, photographs,  screen captures that are big,  simple, clear and keyed to the text.  These graphics can not only make your instructions  more visually appealing,  but also help your readers understand correctly  and help you explain clearly.  The use of graphics depends on the audience.  With a high-tech reader,  the graphic might not be needed.  Thanks for watching.



5.3

﻿  3. Drafting step-by-step information  Organization, format and graphics may vary,  but all instructions require chronological steps.  The heart of a set of instructions  is the step-by-step information.  To successfully write your instructions,  follow these steps:  1. Organize the steps chronologically  as a step-by-step sequence.  Make sure that your instructions are chronologically accurate.  2. Number your steps.  Do not use bullet points or letters.  Numbers can help your readers refer to the correct step easily.  In contrast, if you use bullets or letters,  your readers could have some trouble counting and locating steps.  3. Limit the information and write  only one action for each step.  Don't overload your reader by writing lengthy steps.  Each step should define a single task the reader can  carry out easily.  Look at the following table.  The steps described in the left column are overloaded.  The sentence is too long,  and the readers will surely  have difficulty in following the steps to finish the task.  However, the steps in the right column are clearly separated,  which makes the steps clear and easy to follow.  4. Develop your points thoroughly.  Include precise,  specific details to show your reader exactly what to do.  Avoid vague content by clarifying directions,  equipment required, and cautions.  5. Use short words, short sentences,  and short paragraphs.  Short words, short sentences,  and short paragraphs can keep your reader  focused on one step at a time.  However, an overly complex  or compound-complex sentence can create confusion.  Look at these sentences.  The sentences in the left column are short  and each sentence describes only one step.  The sentence in the right column is really long,  and uses complicated sentence structures,  which may cause confusion for the readers.  6. Begin your steps  with an active-voice verb in the imperative mood.  The imperative mood expresses a request or a command,  and it is more direct and economical.  Note that each of the numbered steps  in the following example begins with a verb,  indicating very clearly the steps and tasks  the readers need to follow.  7. Make sure each step is truly a step.  Although a description may imply action,  it may not direct the reader to actually do something.  Therefore, be careful about the way you organize your ideas.  The emphasis is on the action,  what the readers need to do,  instead of a description.  For example, "Grasp the rope when it comes back to you"  is an imperative sentence,  with emphasis on the verbal phrase "grasp the rope",  which is an action.  While in the second sentence "The rope will come back to you",  the emphasis is on the movement of the rope,  which is a description.  8. Include graphics.  When appropriate, add a photograph or a drawing  to show the reader what to do.  Readers' literacy skills will vary.  Photographs and drawings are a good choice to avoid  any misunderstanding among readers.  The following is an excerpt from an instruction manual  about how to use the barcode scanner.  The writer presents the steps.  Note that the writer numbers the steps  and uses the imperative mood for each one.  Also, the drawing helps readers understand  how to hold the tablet and aim it at the barcode.  In cases such as this,  simple drawings work better than photographs  because they do not distract readers with unnecessary detail.  After you finish drafting the step-by-step instructions,  you must test the accuracy and clarity of the steps  before you submit your final copy.  Do this by asking someone who is not familiar  with the task to follow your directions.  Your testers can provide you with valuable feedback  by noting wording that is not clear,  steps that are out of sequence,  or steps that have been left out.  Then you need to revise your instructions accordingly.  Thanks for watching.



5.4

﻿  4. Planning for safety  If the subject you are writing about involves safety risks,  your most important responsibility  is to do everything you can to ensure your readers’ safety.  To a large extent, the best way to keep your readers safe  is to be honest and write clearly.  If readers will encounter safety risks,  explain what those risks are and how to minimize them.  Readers have a right to the best information  they can get about any risks they are taking.  It is also essential that readers  are provided with adequate safety information  from a legal point of view.  People who get hurt could sue the company  that made the product or provided the service  if the necessary safety information has not been provided.  When you write safety information,  be clear and concise.  Avoid complicated sentences.  Please read the following sentences.  The first sentence is a complex sentence  with a subjective mood.  The second and third sentences  are much more direct and easier to read.  Sometimes a phrase works better than a sentence:  "Safety Glasses Required."  Because a typical set of instructions  can contain dozens of comments--  some related to safety and others not--  experts have devised signal words to  indicate the seriousness of the advice.  But signal words are not used consistently,  and many companies have their own definitions.  The following figure presents  the four most commonly used signal words.  "Danger" is used to alert readers about an immediate  and serious hazard that will likely be fatal.  Writers often use all uppercase letters for danger statements.  "Warning" is used to alert readers  about the potential for serious injury or death  or serious damage to equipment.  Writers often use all uppercase letters for warning statements.  "Caution" is used to alert readers about the potential  for anything from moderate injury  to serious equipment damage or destruction.  "Note" is used for a tip or suggestion to help readers  carry out a procedure successfully.  Another problem when planning for safety  is determining the best location for safety information.  This question has no easy answer  because you cannot control  how your audience reads your document.  So just be conservative:  put safety information wherever you think the reader  is likely to see it,  and don't be afraid to repeat yourself.  A reasonable amount of repetition,  such as including the same safety comment  at the top of each page, is effective.  Alert your readers to any potentially hazardous  materials or actions before they reach the steps  for which the material or the action is needed.  Caution readers handling hazardous materials  or undertaking potentially hazardous action  about any requirements for special clothing,  tools, equipment, or other safety measures.  Highlight warnings, cautions and precautions  to make them stand out visually from the surrounding text.  Here are some tips for providing effective safety information.  Access—make the hazard notations obvious.  To do so, vary your typeface and type size,  use white space to separate the warning or caution  from the surrounding text, box the warning or caution,  and call attention to the hazards through graphics.  Colors—a colored window or text box around the word  can emphasize your hazard message.  Usually, Note is printed in blue or black,  Caution in yellow, Warning in orange, and Danger in red.  Text—provide the readers  with text to accompany your hazard alert,  which can further clarify your terminology.  Your text should contain parts:  1. A one- or two-word identification alerting the reader.  Words such as "High voltage", "Hot equipment",  or "Sharp objects",  will warn your readers of potential dangers  and draw their attention to warnings or cautions.  2. The consequences of the hazards, in three to five words.  Phrases like "Can cause burns",  "Cuts can occur" will tell your readers the results  stemming from the dangers, warnings or cautions.  3. Avoidance steps.  In three to five words,  tell the readers how to avoid the consequence noted:  "Wear rubber shoes",  "Don't touch until cool",  or "Wear protective gloves".  Icons—equipment is manufactured and sold globally;  people speak different languages.  Your hazard alert should contain an icon  to help everyone understand the caution, warning or danger.  This figure shows an effective page layout  and the necessary information to communicate hazard alerts.  This is the hazard alerting word.  The hazard alert color is orange.  This is the alert symbol.  The two-word identification “HOT EQUIPMENT” alerts the readers.  “Burns can occur” tells the readers  the consequences of the potential danger.  “WEAR PROTECTIVE GLOVES” tells the readers  how to avoid the consequences.  The hazard icon here helps the readers understand the warning noted.  Thanks for watching.

