

3.1

﻿  Hello, everyone!  Today we are going to talk about correspondence.  Presenting yourself effectively in correspondence.  Communication is essential for being able to act  and make decisions effectively in the workplace.  You will communicate every day at work,  sharing and exchanging information.  Some communication can take place face-to-face,  while a great deal of communication  is conducted through text messages,  emails,  and memos.  All these may be used for brief correspondence.  When writing correspondence,  pay attention to the following steps  of the writing process.  Step 1--Prewriting,  or we can call it Planning.  You need to determine your purposes,  whether you are going to inform, instruct,  persuade, or build rapport.  You need to clarify your audience.  And then you need to choose the correct tone  and content for your audience and purpose.  Another important consideration is  the correct communication channel.  Here are the main characteristics of each major type.  Messages.  Messaging is effective  for simple messages communicated  between people on the move.  Memos.  This type of correspondence is  moderately formal and, therefore, appropriate  for people within your organization.  Email.  This type of correspondence is best for quick,  relatively informal communication  with one or many recipients.  Emails can be stored, forwarded easily.  In addition,  the writer can attach other files to an email message.  Step 2--Writing, or Drafting.  Once you have determined the objectives  and considered your audience,  your next step is to draft your document.  In doing so,  you need to organize the content.  If your supporting details are presented randomly,  your audience will be confused.  So you need to choose a method of organization  and develop your content logically.  Step 3--Rewriting,  to be more specific,  revising, editing and proofreading.  Sometimes you might need to  write correspondence quickly,  but you still need to do it carefully.  Revise, edit and proofread everything  before you send it or publish it.  If possible, let a peer or colleague read your draft.  If you want to present yourself effectively  in correspondence,  you need to follow certain principles  of effective communication.  Use the appropriate level of formality.  People are sometimes tempted  to use informal writing in the workplace.  Please DON'T do that.  Everything you write while working  is legally the property of the organization  for which you work.  Your documents may be read by your boss,  and may even appear in a court of law.  Therefore, use a moderately formal tone  to avoid potential embarrassment.  Communicate correctly.  Correct writing is free of errors.  Sending correspondence that contains language errors  is unprofessional,  because it suggests a lack of respect  for your reader and for yourself.  It also causes your reader to think  that you are careless about your job.  The key to accomplishing this task is using  the "you attitude", that means,  looking at the situation from the reader's point of view.  Communicate honestly.  Communicating honestly shows respect  for your reader and for yourself.  Why is dishonesty a big problem in correspondence?  Because the topics discussed in business correspondence  often relate to the writer's professionalism  and the quality of his or her work.  For example, a salesperson is going to write  to a customer, explaining  why a product did not arrive on time.  The professional approach is to tell the truth.  If you mislead a reader in explaining  why the shipment didn't arrive on time,  the reader will likely double-check the facts,  and conclude that you are trying to avoid responsibility.  In addition, effective correspondence requires  another important element:  seeking the goodwill of readers.  Goodwill is a feeling of good intentions  and the value of doing things that  create mutual trust and respect.  Effective business correspondence  fosters goodwill  through its word choice and message.  You can create goodwill in writing  the same way you create the bonds of a friendship.  The following table suggests some of the characteristics  of effective correspondence  as well as traits the writer should avoid.  Communicate effectively and develop goodwill  with concise language,  accuracy and completeness,  professional appearance,  conventional format,  logical organization,  standard English usage.  You will hinder goodwill  and communicate ineffectively with  fuzzy, uncertain words that take up readers' time  with details they do not need;  inaccurate, incomplete information  creating misunderstandings and problems;  sloppy appearance,  making you and your organization appear  incompetent and careless;  unfamiliar format that confuses the readers;  illogical organization,  frustrating readers' efforts to follow your thinking;  grammatical and punctuation errors  and misspelled words,  causing you and your organization appear  uneducated and careless.  Text messages, e-mails, memos,  not only communicate a message  but also serve as a way to establish or maintain  a positive working relationship with your readers  and convey a professional image  of yourself and your organization.  Thank you for watching.



3.2

﻿  Writing messages.  Text messaging refers to the delivery of  exchange of brief written messages  via mobile phones or networks.  It allows both real-time text communications  and the transfer of text or other files.  Text messaging is effective  for simple messages communicated  between people on the move,  and especially useful for those  who are working in an environment  that demands near-instant,  brief written exchanges between two or more participants.  The following are the benefits of text messages.  Increased speed of communication.  Improved communication efficiency  for colleagues and customers  at a distance in real time.  Less intrusive communication channel  than telephone calls.  Low cost compared with long-distance telephone rates.  Multitasking allows the writer to deal with  more than one task,  such as writing an e-mail to a customer  while simultaneously receiving text messages  from a colleague.  Decreased intimidation  with avoiding person-to-person situations.  Easy documentation by recording all the dialogues  and clarifying any later misconception.  But there are some potential problems  with text messages.  Security issues.  Text message users are vulnerable  to hackers and technical breakdowns.  As a result,  a company could lose important,  confidential documents.  Lost productivity.  Text messaging can lead to job downtime.  Usually we tend to type more slowly than we talk.  A brief text messaging conversation  can lead to hours of lost productivity.  Employee misuse and distraction.  Text messaging may also lead to personal messages  rather than job-related communication  with colleagues or customers.  Reduced professionalism.  Due to the conversational nature of text messages,  people tend to relax their professionalism  and forget the rules of politeness  in workplace communication.  In order to avoid these potential problems,  consider the following suggestions:  1. Decide whether text messages are suitable  for the writing situation.  Use text messages for speed and convenience.  If you need length and detail, other options,  such as e-mails and reports, are much better choices.  In addition, sensitive topics  should never be handled through text messaging.  These should be dealt with by telephone calls  or face-to-face meetings.  2. Consider the length and formality  of the text messages.  A unique characteristic of text messages is  its demand for conciseness.  Remember, busy professionals may receive  a great volume of text messages,  so your messages must be concise and specific.  And you should also know the formality the readers expect.  3. Clearly and briefly explain the context of your message  so that the readers will understand.  For instance, when you respond to a question,  make sure your readers realize  which question you are answering.  4. Summarize decisions.  Messaging is great for collaboration,  but it is not so formal.  Once conclusions have been reached,  the group leader should e-mail everyone involved.  5. Document important information.  For future reference, you must archive key text.  6. Plan for handling emotions effectively.  Do not flame.  One possible way to convey feelings  is through the use of emoticons,  such as the smiley face.  Finally, let's talk about  how to write text messages effectively.  To set up routine text message exchanges,  work with those with whom  you regularly exchange messages  to find the appropriate software or tool to use.  The second step is to add to your contact list  the user names of those  with whom you regularly exchange messages.  Another necessary step is to understand  your employer's messaging policies,  such as limitations on sending personal messages  during work hours or requirements concerning confidentiality.  Then you are ready to write.  Because of the conversational nature,  text messages have no format,  and the tone is informal.  Most software for text messages  has a limit on the number of characters per message.  Many who send text messages use abbreviations  and shortened spellings,  such as "u" for "you".  Be sure that your reader will understand  such abbreviations.  When in doubt, avoid them.  The following is an example  of a text message exchange with a business partner.  Notice that the correspondents use an informal style  that includes abbreviations  with which both are familiar,  such as NP for no problem,  and QSG for Quick Start Guide.  All messages are simple and short,  demonstrating they can not only help people  exchange information quickly,  but also build rapport among colleagues  and team members.  In summary,  if you want to write text messages effectively,  you need to:  consider your audience and purpose,  keep text messages brief and to the point,  avoid too many abbreviations,  know when to end the conversation,  be professional in tone and style,  avoid discussing confidential topics.  Thanks for watching.



3.3

﻿  Writing Emails.  Email functions in the workplace  as a primary medium to exchange information  and share electronic files  with colleagues, clients, and customers.  Email messages range from short,  informal notes to longer,  more formal communications with clients and professionals.  You may also attach memos, photos,  and other files to emails.  Now, email has become the most common form  of written workplace communication.  Why is email so important?  First, email can quickly and efficiently address  an individual, a group within an organization,  readers from outside the organization.  One email message can reach  thousands of readers in seconds,  and these readers can forward that email to others.  Second, email is useful  when people are in different time zones  or have different working schedules.  You can send an email at 00am,  and your colleague can read it in the morning.  Third, writers can include attachments,  such as scans of print documents,  to email, thus improving work efficiency.  Forth, email is cost effective  because it is paper-free.  With the ability to attach files,  you can send many kinds of documentation  without paying fees.  Fifth, email has additional value  when it comes to documentation.  Email provides a company with extensive records  for future reference.  Now let's talk about the parts and format of email.  A standard email begins  with a heading section  containing To, From, and Subject.  Optional features include distribution notation,  attachment notation,  sender's contact information  and complimentary closing.  Like any workplace document,  an effective email message should have a brief introduction  that gets right to the point,  a clear body section with transitions  between each paragraph,  and a brief conclusion that often requires action.  This picture illustrates a standard workplace email.  Header.  Header contains From, To,  Subject, plus CC and BC or Bcc.  An email should have a specific subject line.  We know corporate employees  often receive lots of email messages each day.  In order to ensure your messages are read,  you need to avoid uninformative subject lines,  such as "Important Message" or "Hi".  Instead, you should include an effective subject line,  such as  "Subject: Meeting Dates for Sales Conference".  CC stands for courtesy copy.  All your readers will know that you are sending  a copy to this person or group.  BC or Bcc stands for blind copy or blind courtesy copy.  None of your readers will know that  you are sending a copy to this person or group.  By naming your readers at the start,  you are showing respect for them.  In this paragraph,  you need to clarify the writer's purpose,  and get right to the point.  You may begin like this, "I'm writing to..."  This part explains background details  and describes ideas.  Usually you can invite further actions,  state specific requirements and deadlines.  You need to end politely,  and write a complimentary closing,  such as "Yours sincerely", "Regards".  You may create a signature  which includes your contact information,  which can be attached automatically to your emails.  Here are some tips  to help you convey your messages effectively.  1. Find out your organization's email policies.  Most companies have written policies  that discuss circumstances  under which you may and may not use email,  principles you should use in writing emails.  2. Recognize your audience.  Email messages can be sent to managers,  co-workers, subordinates,  and customers, among other audiences.  Your reader will be high tech or low tech;  thus, you should factor in levels of knowledge.  If your message is sent internationally,  you also need to consider your readers' language.  Even email platforms display text differently.  3. Identify yourself.  Identify yourself by name, affiliation, or title.  Creating a signature  with all necessary information is a good idea,  which can make the corporate contact much convenient.  4. Provide an effective subject line.  An informative and specific subject line  can make sure your messages are read.  5. Keep your email messages brief  and each paragraph short.  You should skip a line between paragraphs  and help them access information quickly.  Some readers may only look at  the first screen of your message.  So, you should limit your messages  to one screen if possible.  6. Organize your e-mail message.  Begin with introductory sentences to tell the readers  why you are writing and what you are writing about.  Then, clarify your points thoroughly.  Use the concluding sentences to tell the reader  what is next.  7. Proofread your email message.  Errors will undermine your professionalism  and your company's credibility.  Recheck before you send the message.  8. Be careful when sending an attachment.  Tell your reader within the body of the email message  that you have attached a file.  Zipped files are necessary  only if an attachment is quite large.  9. Be courteous and professional.  Try to avoid sending emails which are TYPED ALL IN CAPS.  It seems that you are very angry.  Email has become a predominant means  of routine correspondence in business and industry.  Email is fast and efficient,  and also provides an electronic record.  So organize your mail messages carefully  and follow your organization's email policies.  Thank you!



3.4

﻿  Writing memos.  Memos are an important means  by which employees communicate with each other.  Memos are used within organizations  for routine correspondence,  short reports, proposals,  and other internal documents.  Memos are important for interpersonal communication  within your working environment for several reasons.  1. Memos are written to a wide range of readers,  so it greatly improves the efficiency  of information transfer.  2. Memos are very flexible  and can be written for many different purposes,  such as documentation of expenses,  hiring and firing, and sales decisions.  Usually, memos contain the following key points:  identification lines,  introduction,  discussion,  conclusion,  audience recognition,  appropriate memo style and tone.  Identification lines.  Identification lines  include Date, To, From, and Subject.  The subject line summarizes the memo's content.  One-word subject lines  do not communicate effectively.  The "After" sample is much better  than the "Before" sample,  since the "Before" sample has a topic  but is missing a focus.  Introduction.  Get to the point in the introductory sentences.  Write one or two clear introductory sentences  which tell your readers  what topic you are writing about and why you are writing.  The following is an example of an introductory sentence.  Discussion.  This section allows you to develop your content specifically.  Readers might not read every line of your memo.  The longer the paragraph,  the more likely your reader is to avoid reading it.  So make your text more reader-friendly  by using white space, boldfacing,  creating headings, or inserting graphics.  Look at the following two samples,  and you can see that the "After" sample  is much more reader-friendly.  Conclusion.  Conclude your memo with "thanks"  and directive action, as needed.  A pleasant conclusion could motivate your readers.  And a directive close tells your readers exactly  what you want them to do next  or what your plans are.  Here is an example.  The following is a template for memos,  including Introduction, Discussion and Conclusion.  Before you start to write,  think carefully about the following issues:  1. Audience recognition.  Memos are used to correspond inside an organization.  Therefore,  memos are mainly for in-house audiences.  Since readers of memos are an internal audience,  more acronyms and internal abbreviations  can be used in memos.  2. Style and tone.  Memos are usually only one page long.  Use simple words, short sentences,  specific detail, and highlighting techniques.  In addition, they strive for an informal, friendly tone.  The following examples show the different styles.  Obviously the second example is much better.  3. Planning memos.  As with planning text messages and emails,  prewriting memos requires writers  to consider the audience's expectations.  Readers usually expect memos to be brief  and to cover one topic.  However, make sure the memo explains the topic fully.  You should plan to include all of the specific details  that your audience may need.  Furthermore,  you sometimes choose to write memos  to document discussions, decisions, or actions.  When you write a memo,  organize it so that it is easy to follow.  Consider these five organizational elements:  A specific subject line,  a clear statement of purpose,  a brief summary,  informative headings,  and a prominent recommendation.  Now, let’s have a look at the sample memo again.  This is a memo from Purchasing Department  to the Manager of the company.  This memo has complete identification lines.  And the subject line indicates that  this memo is about “Replacement of Mobile Phones”.  Then the introduction states the purpose of this memo,  purchasing options and intended actions.  The discussion analyzes the criteria used to decide  which mobile phone to purchase.  Tables are used to ensure reader-friendly ease of access.  The conclusion summarizes the importance of the action.  It also ends in a personalized and positive tone  to ensure reader involvement.  If you want to write an effective memo like this one,  take on board the following suggestions:  Do not overuse or misuse memos.  Use email or telephone  when you need to ask a quick question  or resolve a simple issue.  For a sensitive topic,  have a face-to-face conversation.  Focus on one topic.  If you need to address more than one topic,  consider other formats,  or write more than one memo.  Be brief but sufficiently informative.  Recipients expect memos  that are short and to the point,  but not at the expense of clarity.  Be sure the tone of your memo is  polite and respectful.  Even with an in-house audience,  showing respect and kindness is necessary.  Avoid sounding too formal or too informal  for the topic or audience.  Follow the standard format required  by your organization.  Use white space, headings,  and bullets, as needed.  These features provide visible structure to your memo.  Use tables, charts,  and other visuals to display information  and to achieve emphasis, as needed.  Check spelling, grammar and style.  Proofread, or ask a colleague to proofread the memo.  Determine whether you should use  paper or email to send your memo.  Paper memos take longer to reach the reader  but may convey a more serious purpose,  whereas digital distribution is quicker  but may be overlooked by the reader.  Distribute to the right people.  Be sure it reaches only those  who need the information.  At the same time,  don't leave out anyone  who needs to read your messages.  Thank you very much!

