

7.1

﻿  Eugenia has been working in the company  for only two months after her graduation.  One day her boss asked her  to write a report to update him on the progress  of a project her group is working on.  Eugenia is excited because it is a good opportunity  to display her writing skills for the first time,  but she is also worried about how to write it.  When she thinks of reports,  she pictures formal documents  that contain many pages of research,  information, charts and graphs,  footnotes, and other details.  Actually Eugenia 's boss has asked for an informal report.  To help Eugenia figure out which type she's writing,  we’ll examine different types of informal technical reports,  including informational and analytical reports,  and the purpose and types of each.  Professionals in business and industry sometimes  use specialized reports to convey information  about their work.  Among these informational reports,  progress reports answer how much progress  has been made on a project;  activity reports answer what activity transpired  during a given period;  trip reports deal with what activities took place  during a business trip,  and meeting minutes report  what discussions occurred in a meeting.  Other reports, known as analytical reports,  offer information as well as evaluate  and interpret information accurately,  draw valid conclusions,  and make persuasive recommendations.  Therefore, you evaluate whether a project  or situation is feasible in feasibility reports  and make recommendations on  how to proceed in recommendation reports.  Now Eugenia has understood the differences  between informational and analytical reports,  but is still unaware of what kind of report she is writing.  Next, let’s take Eugenia through the different reports.  A progress report informs a supervisor,  or client about the status of a project  over a specific period of time.  In the case of internal audience,  managers use progress reports to evaluate projects,  monitor employees, decide how to allocate funds,  and keep track of delays or expense overages.  In the case of external audience,  progress reports explain to client how time and money  are being spent and how difficulties  have been overcome to assure the client  that the project will be completed  on schedule and within the budget.  Periodic activity reports are similar  to progress reports in that both summarize activities  over a specified period.  But unlike progress reports,  which summarize specific accomplishments  on a particular project,  periodic activity reports summarize general activities  of a work group or of an entire organization  over a specified period of time.  Let’s look at this periodic report prepared  by an employee who answers her boss’s question:  What did you accomplish last month?  First, the subject line announces the topic.  This part gives an overview of recent activities,  and their purpose.  Then she gives details of what she has done:  the meeting she hosted and the meeting she attended.  The report ends up with the explanation  of the benefits of these activities.  A trip report is normally written  as a memo or an e-mail, as shown in this report,  as a permanent record of a business trip  and its accomplishments.  The subject line identifies the destination  and dates of the trip.  The body of the report explains  why you made the trip, whom you visited,  and what you accomplished.  The report should devote a brief section to each major  activity and may include a heading for each section.  Follow the body of the report  with the appropriate conclusions and recommendations.  Here is meeting minutes.  Meeting minutes remind attendees of important highlights,  action items and key decisions made during a meeting.  The formats vary from company to company,  but most include a few basic items:  Pre-Meeting items include the purpose of the meeting,  what it was about, where and when it was held.  It is important to include a list of the attendees.  In-Meeting items usually include three main things:  What was achieved during the meeting.  Decisions that were made at the meeting.  Any actions that were agreed.  Finally, if a follow-up meeting was agreed on,  this should be mentioned.  When organizations consider a new project,  they first need to determine the project’s chances for success.  A feasibility report answers such questions as the following:  What is the problem or situation,  and how should we deal with it?  Is this course of action likely to succeed?  Do the benefits outweigh the drawbacks or risks?  What are the pros and cons?  What are the costs?  Based on the findings of analysis,  the report offers logical conclusions and recommends  whether the project should be carried out.  In this report, for instance,  a securities analyst reports to the manager  on the feasibility of investing in  a rapidly growing computer manufacturer.  The subject line clearly indicates the purpose of the report.  Then the writer gives background information,  makes a direct recommendation,  explains the criteria supporting the recommendation  and finally encourages reader action.  Another type of analytical report is recommendation reports.  Like feasibility reports,  they may include supporting data,  but they also state “Here’s what we should do and why”  rather than “Should we do it?”  This sample recommendation report is written  by a health and safety officer at an airline company  to a vice president.  The subject line states the exact purpose.  The writer first provides immediate orientation  by giving brief background and main point.  Then he states the problem  before he makes general recommendations.  Most important of all,  he expands on each recommendation in the following part.  Based upon the explanation,  Eugenia comes to understand  that she’s writing an informational report,  for her boss really wants information on the progress  of her group while working on the current project.  That’s all for this lesson.  Thanks for watching.



7.2

﻿  Jarvis works for an aircraft corporation.  His boss has asked Jarvis to prepare a formal report  on the ethics cases handled by the ethics officers  of the corporation in the past year.  Jarvis knows a formal report requires detailed information,  substantial research,  and data necessary to make business decisions.  So his report will provide information and analyze  this information about the ethics cases,  such as the nature and disposition.  Finally, his analysis will lead him to make conclusions  and recommendations for planning  for the second year of the Ethics Program.  As a formal report has a fairly standard format  —front matter, text, and back matter  — each of which contains a number of elements,  Jarvis will submit his completed document  with the following list, in this order:  Front matter, including:  letter of transmittal  title page  table of contents  list of tables and figures  abstract  Text of the report with introduction, body, conclusion.  Back matter including  glossary (as needed)  appendices (as needed)  works cited  Now let’s first take a look at the front matter.  The front matter refers to all the material  and information preceding the text of the report.  Jarvis will first provide a letter of transmittal,  addressed to a specific reader or readers,  informing the recipient that his report  has been included in the packet.  It may also state the purpose of the report,  briefly summarize the content,  and offer contact information if the reader or readers  have any questions about his report  or if they need any further information.  The title page provides the report title,  the names of all authors and their affiliations,  and the date the report was submitted.  An abstract, which normally follows the title page,  provides an easy-to-read summary of the key points  of the report in a non-technical manner.  Instead of reading an entire formal report,  readers interested only in the big picture  may consult the abstract that commonly precedes the report.  The table of contents lists the page number  for each major section, including any front matter  that falls after the table of contents.  Do not include the letter of transmittal, title page,  or the table of contents itself,  but do include the list of tables  and figures, along with the abstract.  Front-matter pages are numbered  with lowercase Roman numerals (i, ii, iii).  The title page should not be numbered, as in this example,  but it is considered page i.  The back of the title page, still unnumbered, is ii.  The abstract begins on iii.  The back of the abstract is iv, but it is unnumbered.  The table of contents begins on v.  Number the report text pages using Arabic numerals (  3),  starting with the first page of the report.  A list of illustrations such as tables, charts, graphs  and other visuals can be seen on a separate page  following the table of contents  or at the end of the table of contents, if it fits.  Number illustrations consecutively with Arabic numbers.  As you can see, the front matter of a formal report acts  as a sort of overview for the rest of the report.  It’s important to note that nearly all the front matter  will be prepared after the actual report is written,  even though it is the first part of a formal report.  Following the front matter is the text, the core of the report.  The text of Jarvis' report is organized into several sections.  He’ll prepare an executive summary,  introduction, analysis of findings,  as well as conclusions and recommendations.  Executive summary provides a more complete  overview of the report than an abstract does.  Here Jarvis will state the purpose,  provide background information, describe the scope,  summarize the conclusions and make recommendations.  The introduction gives readers any general information,  such as the report’s purpose, scope, and context.  Jarvis’ introduction, for example,  will explain that his report was written  to provide the Ethics and Business Conduct Committee  with the information necessary for assessing the effectiveness  of the first year’s Ethics Program.  He’ll also provide a brief background sketch of ethics cases  An analysis of findings  is probably the longest section of the text.  It reveals what facts you discovered,  how a problem was solved,  what alternatives were explored,  and how the best choice among them was selected.  This information is enhanced by the use  of visuals, tables, headings, and references  that both clarify the text and persuade the reader.  Jarvis is drafting a discussion  that analyzes major and minor ethics cases in his company.  Then the text ends up with a conclusion section  in an informational report or a conclusions  and recommendations section in an analytical report.  Following the report text is the back matter,  which may include supplementary material  such as a glossary, appendices, and/or bibliography.  Use a glossary if your report contains  more than five technical terms.  If you have large blocks of material  that are relevant but will bog readers down,  place these in an appendix.  If you have used outside sources in your report,  you must provide a list of references or works cited.  To summarize, in this lesson you have learned about  the three major components of a formal report,  the front matter, the text, and the back matter.  Thanks for watching.



7.3

﻿  Eugenia is working at a big project  with a team of her colleagues.  And now, she is writing a progress report to inform the boss  about the progress made on the project.  She doesn't know exactly what to put in the report.  In this lesson you’re going to find out  how to format a progress report, along with Eugenia.  So, what is a progress report?  As is suggested in its name,  a progress report is a document that reports progress  for a period of time, describing what has been done  and what is left to do on only one project.  Namely, it covers in detail all achievements  as well as plans for the upcoming reporting period  toward completing one project.  Progress reports help projects run smoothly  by helping managers assign work, adjust schedules,  allocate budgets, and order supplies and equipment,  like Eugenia updating her boss on the project at work.  But Eugenia is not quite sure  how a progress report should look like.  To help her, let’s look at the common formats  and the structures of a progress report.  A progress report comes in different forms,  but customarily people use three primary forms  for their progress reports.  Depending on the size of the report,  the length and importance of the project,  and the recipient,  the progress report can take the following forms:  Memo--A short,  informal report to someone within your organization.  Letter or email--A short, informal report  shared either within or outside of your organization.  Formal report--A long, formal document  sent to someone outside your organization,  most often bound in a folder.  Eugenia is writing a progress report  to her boss instead of the client,  so she doesn’t have to share the progress in a very formal way.  She might also want to share copies  with all the other project members.  Therefore, she could present it as a memo or a letter or email.  Now Eugenia has decided on the format for her progress report,  but she still feels confused about  what she should include in the report.  Next let’s look at what organizational pattern  Eugenia can adopt for her progress report.  The reader of a progress report wants to see  what you’ve accomplished on the project,  what you are working on now,  what you plan to work on next,  and how the project is going in general.  To report this information,  Eugenia could combine  any two of these organizational strategies:  time periods, project tasks, or report topics.  First, time periods.  A progress report usually summarizes  work within each of the following time periods:  Work accomplished in the preceding period(s)  Work currently being performed  Work planned for the next period(s)  Second, project tasks.  Practically every project breaks down into individual tasks.  Third, report topics.  You would need information on different topics of a project.  A progress report is a combination  of two of the above organizational strategies.  The following organizational patterns  give you an idea of how they combine.  As you can see here, Pattern A,  organized by time-periods and project-tasks,  is the time-periods approach with subheadings for project tasks.  Pattern B is the project-tasks approach  with subheadings for time periods,  and Pattern C is the time-periods approach  with subheadings for report topics.  Well, say, Eugenia might want to choose Pattern B  to structure her progress report.  Now she’s happy she has learned  how to organize the main part of her progress report.  But to make a complete report  she also needs an introduction and a conclusion.  In the introduction,  she needs to review the history of the project's beginnings  as well as the purpose and scope of the work.  This will aid recipients who are unfamiliar with the project,  who do not remember certain details,  or who want to double check the approach to the project.  The final paragraph or section  is an overall appraisal of the project to date,  which usually acts as the conclusion to reassure recipients  that all is going well and on schedule.  Well, we have learned about the different formats  and structure of a progress report.  I believe Eugenia has got a clear idea  of how to write a progress report.  What about you?  That’s all for this lesson.  Thank you.



7.4

﻿  Hello, everyone!  In this lesson we’ll examine recommendation report,  looking at what it is,  what it includes and how it is organized.  A recommendation report is a problem-and-solution report,  a written answer to a problem or a need  that arises in the workplace.  Employees write recommendation reports  to help decision makers choose the best solution.  Grayson's company has decided to expand.  Grayson was asked to write a report for his company  to recommend a town for the construction of a new plant.  After several meetings, Grayson and his team members  have narrowed the location of its new plant to two sites.  Now let’s follow Grayson as he writes his recommendation report.  Grayson have several formatting choices for his report:  a formal multipage document or an informal memo;  a traditional print document or an email attachment.  Whatever the format,  a recommendation report consists of an introduction,  recommendation, scope,  options,  discussion,  and conclusion.  To help Grayson make sure he includes all of them,  let’s go through each of them one by one.  In the introductory section,  Grayson needs to state the purpose of the report,  briefly explain the problem or situation,  narrow the choice to two or three items,  give a criteria list, and preview the rest of the report.  For example, Grayson will want  to provide a brief overview of the situation,  including the history of the company,  why they want to expand the company, and ect.  He will also want to summarize the purpose of the report  as to help his company decide on a best location.  And he will indicate that after consulting with administration,  workers who will relocate and local furniture manufacturer  he has devised the following criteria:  resources, utilities, and living conditions.  One thing Grayson has to note is that  in some cases recommendation section appears  in the end with the conclusion.  But sometimes it appears early in the report,  immediately following introduction,  especially when the report is solicited.  Grayson's report is definitely solicited  and his boss asked him to analyze several alternatives.  His boss wants the important information first.  So Grayson wants to put this recommendation early instead  of making recommendation at the end of his report.  Here he uses criteria to summarize reasons  for the recommendation.  The next section Grayson should include is scope.  He needs to list criteria given in the introduction,  in descending order from most important to least important,  explains why each criterion was chosen  and why they are ranked as they are.  For example, Grayson thinks a fair price for the land  and the labor cost should be given top priority  in considering the location choice,  so he puts resources in the first place.  After that, Grayson will need to explain  how he narrowed the field of choices down to the ones  his report focuses on in the discussion of the options.  Often, this section follows right after the discussion of the scope.  Additionally, Grayson may need to provide brief descriptions  of the two options themselves so that readers  will know something about them.  For example, Grayson can say about the location,  population, transportation,  and so on and so forth of the two towns.  Then Grayson analyzes each of the criteria thoroughly  and draws individual conclusions about which town  is better for each criterion in the thirs part, discussion section.  Under the major heading of each criterion,  Grayson explains the essential elements or features  by comparing each option being considered.  Finally, an individual conclusion shows  the results of the comparison for the criterion.  Discussion section is considered the most important  part of the report where the writer clarifies  and explains the significance of the results  so that readers can understand and evaluate his assessment.  Most recommendation reports follow an organizational plan  called point by point in this section.  Point-by-point organization zigzags  from one item to the next, comparing  or contrasting some aspect of one item  to the same aspect of another item.  For example, under the utilities heading in Grayson's report,  Grayson compares the two towns in terms of the water and power.  The two sites are collected under one point,  or criterion—in this case, utilities.  This chart shows the zigzag from one item to another.  The final section of the body of the report presents  conclusions and recommendation.  This is in part a summary of the individual conclusions  you have already reached in the comparison sections.  In this section, Grayson restates the individual conclusions,  for example, which town has better resources,  which has better utilities, and so on.  By now, Grayson has outlined which town is better in each section,  as well as summed up the individual conclusions.  His recommendation is pretty clear  and he wants to present the final conclusion  by explicitly saying which town he recommends choosing.  All right.  Now Grayson has understood his recommendation report  will follow this structure:  Introduction  Recommendation  Scope/ Requirements  Options  Discussion (comparison )  Conclusion  Have you got it?  Thank you!

